For the past couple of years, investors have been able to simply buy stocks that are already rising and make out like bandits. The market isn't supposed to work like that. Valuations have historically kept runaway gainers in check. But the advent of the AI revolution has reset the parameters around how long a stock can remain in the stratosphere. That run helped nurture the practice of playing the market's hot hand — otherwise known as the momentum trade. It trounced the S&P 500 in 2024, 2025, and through the first half of 2026, so you could forgive investors for getting complacent. But the third quarter has brought a reversal. The S&P 500 Momentum Index is down 9% since the start of July, badly lagging the S&P 500's 3% gain. That disconnect is notable, since it shows the momentum trade was unraveling even as the broader market hovered near records for much of August. This is because stocks didn't experience a full-fledged sell-off — they instead rotated within. Neglected areas soared as hot AI sectors faltered. Here's a more detailed look at three catalysts that contributed to the momentum trade's sudden unwind: 1. The chip trade finally ran out of steam If you look under the hood at which S&P 500 Momentum Index stocks rose the most in the first half of the year, chipmakers dominate the top 10. Memory-chip companies in particular saw huge triple-digit gains. Now, in the third quarter, many of those same chipmakers populate the index's bottom 10. The deepest losses came in July, when AI investors started to show nerves around valuations and spending forecasts. 2. Biotech flipped the script Moderna has long been searching for its second act as a company after a COVID-era boom. Earlier this month, the drugmaker — alongside fellow drugmaker Merck — reported successful results in a late-stage trial for a melanoma vaccine. The resulting 177% single-day stock spike showed that investors are taking Moderna's next chapter ultra-seriously. It also lifted shares across biotech, reviving the struggling sector, which had become a popular target for short-sellers. The Aug. 19 surge helped trigger a short squeeze in biotech, contributing to what Goldman Sachs called the worst day for systematic long-short managers in more than two years. The market's neglected losers suddenly became its biggest winners — a difficult setup for strategies built around recent performance. Bye-bye momentum trade. 3. Leverage made the reversal hurt more Speaking of forces that help trades unwind quickly … investors became so comfortable with the momentum trade that they started amplifying their bets. It's a fine strategy if the underlying asset cooperates. But when things go south, the fallout is swift and painful. Just ask those investors who used leverage to short biotech. There was no bigger cautionary tale against the use of leverage than the collapse of hedge fund Situational Awareness, which was loaded to the gills with many red-hot AI stocks. When the AI trade started struggling in July, that leverage compounded rapidly developing losses. What's next Don't write off momentum just yet. It suffered a similar setback in early 2025 during the DeepSeek scare before storming back. But this quarter has been a reminder that the trade is most vulnerable when too many investors crowd into the same winners — especially when neglected stocks suddenly give the market a reason to take them seriously. Your guide to what's moving markets