American Airlines' largest Boeing widebody plane just got a major makeover. On Wednesday, the airline unveiled its new Flagship business class suites for its 20-strong Boeing 777-300ER fleet. American said it's the most premium-packed jet in the US, with 144 premium seats in total: 70 business-class suites, 44 premium economy seats, and 30 extra-legroom Main Cabin Extra seats. The 777-300ER is the third aircraft type American has fitted with the upgraded Flagship Suite. The cabin debuted on newly delivered Boeing 787-9s in June 2025 and later launched on the Airbus A321XLR in December 2025. Customers experienced the new Flagship interior for the first time on a flight from New York-JFK to Buenos Aires on Wednesday, and it features a lot of new perks compared to the old version. Business-class finally has doors, as well as more storage, more space, and better entertainment. Perhaps most notably, it doesn't have Flagship First, the last of its kind among US carriers. The distinctive cabin will no longer be available for booking from November 19 amid low demand and customer preference for a better business class. American — and the broader airline industry — continue to bet on premium travel as passengers remain willing to pay more for added comforts. Earlier this year, United Airlines announced a new "Elevated" interior for its Boeing 787s, featuring 99 business-class and premium-economy seats. Delta has also announced new cabins for its future Airbus A350-1000s, set to debut in 2027, with premium seats making up 50% of the jet. Business-class seats are highly profitable and account for a significant part of airlines' ticket revenue, helping pad their bottom lines even as some consumers pull back on spending and the conflict in the Middle East drives up fuel prices. In the airline's July earnings call, American chief commercial officer Nat Pieper said that much of that revenue is from affluent customers, saying, "Nearly 60% of our revenue comes from households making $150,000 or more, and so that's demand that's more likely to hold up through economic uncertainty." Here's a closer look at how American is capitalizing on the premium boom, and how its new Flagship Suite compares to the old one. American's previous 777-300ER business class debuted back in 2013. The old version, pictured, had 52 seats and was a major upgrade for its time. It differed from the unpopular 2×2×2 and 2×3×2 layouts American had installed on other Boeing widebodies, which forced window-seat flyers to crawl over their neighbors to access the aisle, while some were stuck in middle seats. It also offered better seatback screens, a more comfortable and private sleeping setup, and a walk-up snack bar, stocked with drinks, fruit, chips, and cookies. The latter will remain available in American's new 777-300ER business class. The new Flagship Business maintains a 1×2×1 layout. The configuration, pictured in the bottom image, will include one seat angled in by the window and two in the middle angled toward each other, with a privacy divider between them. Every passenger will retain direct aisle access. The new seats, which span 19 rows, are made by Elevate Aircraft Seating (formerly Adient Aerospace) and are also used on American's 787s. The top photo is the old version, which had 52 seats — 18 fewer than the new Flagship. It also now features ever-popular sliding doors. Among the most highly requested perks from premium travelers are sliding doors. American's old version didn't have the door but instead had a large curved wing for privacy. The new door is also fully certified and doesn't need to be locked open, as was the case with the airline's A321XLR doors at launch. Those have since been approved by the Federal Aviation Administration. To pack in 70 business-class seats, American shaved an inch of legroom. According to the airline seating information website SeatMaps, the previous 777 business class, pictured, had one more inch of legroom, 42 inches now versus 43 before — a negligible difference. "When retrofitting any aircraft, we utilize the space available to be able to offer a variety of products for customers to choose from," an American spokesperson told Business Insider. There are now more storage and power ports. Both versions have a cubby and nooks, but American said the new version, pictured right, offers more storage space than the previous one (left), including a dedicated drink surface, shelves, and a laptop slot. Both versions offer charging via USB-A and AC ports, but the new one also includes wireless charging and USB-C. The seatback screen is also a few inches wider. All seatback screens in business class feature 17.5-inch 4K displays with Bluetooth — both significant upgrades from the previous screens. There's also a remote, but it isn't touchscreen. The seat also has a "Do Not Disturb" mode, adjustable ambient lighting, and a large tray table. There is a patented chaise lounge mode. American's unique chaise-lounge mode, which is also on the 787, allows passengers to sit upright and lean against the suite shell with their legs stretched out onto the lie-flat bed, like they're lounging on a beach chair. A patented second seatbelt keeps them secure in this position. Flagship Preferred Suites replace Flagship First. The eight Flagship First suites, complete with a swivel chair that creates a small office, are now Flagship Preferred: eight oversized suites with an ottoman that accommodates an additional passenger, allowing families to dine or socialize together, or colleagues to meet. The special nook, which takes advantage of the extra space in the bulkhead rows, is also on the 787s. Passengers can book the 777 Preferred at no additional fee, though American may monetize it in the future, as other carriers have. For example, United's similar Polaris Studio starts at $499 to add. Here's what Flagship First looked like. After Flagship First becomes unavailable in November, it will also go off sale on select transcontinental routes in late March 2027 as American adds more A321XLRs. Flagship Business gets access to the lounge. Flagship travelers get priority check-in, boarding, security, and baggage handling, as well as access to the Flagship lounge, where available. Onboard meals are chef-curated, and the plane is stocked with premium wines and spirits. Flyers also get an amenity kit, and the linens include a cool-touch dual-sided pillow, a blanket, and a mattress pad. AAdvantage loyalty members also get access to free high-speed WiFi. The jet also includes a new premium economy cabin. The 44 upgraded premium economy seats — up from 28 — offer better privacy and space, along with elevated meals, Bluetooth connectivity, water bottle storage, wireless charging, USB-C and AC power ports, adjustable headrests, and calf and foot rests. It's considered the middle-ground in terms of price and comfort between business class and coach. Still, the 777 is so wide that American can fit eight across, meaning there are two middle seats per row. Economy was also retrofitted. American revamped the old coach and extra legroom seats with better padding, inflight entertainment, and Bluetooth connectivity. It maintains its 10-abreast seating configuration, with 216 seats in total: 186 in Main Cabin and 30 in Main Cabin Extra. Overall, the plane has 330 seats — the previous setup had 304. American's retrofitted 777-300ER will fly to five cities. American has rapidly expanded its international network to cash in on long-haul premium demand — cabins that sell for thousands of dollars to destinations across Europe, Asia, and beyond. The 777-300ER's international routes include London, Tokyo, São Paulo, Buenos Aires, and Sydney.