Nothing annoys Uber driver Levi Spires more than a passenger who makes him wait. Riders don't have to make conversation or tip to earn five stars from Spires, who said he gives most passengers the top rating. If a rider keeps him waiting without an explanation or apology, that's different. "That's a 1-star automatic every time," said Spires, who has completed more than 16,000 trips in over six years driving mostly around Syracuse, New York. He's also built a following around his experience behind the wheel, producing a podcast, videos, and social media content about earnings and passenger behavior. That 1-star rating may have consequences beyond Spires' car. Research suggests that your passenger rating can affect whether Uber drivers will accept your next ride. One study of 16 Uber drivers in the Netherlands in 2019 found that some avoided low-rated passengers, viewing a poor rating as a warning that the rider may misbehave. How low is too low? Spires said he filters out riders rated below 4.9. For additional context, in Australia, the average Uber rider rating was 4.82 in 2025, with major metro areas averaging between 4.78 and 4.88 out of 5. Keeping Spires waiting isn't the only way to risk a low rating. The other behaviors that bother Spires come down to how passengers treat his car — and how they treat him. If he arrives and you're not ready, the clock is already working against him Spires said Uber doesn't pay him for the first two minutes of waiting, then usually pays him $0.26 per minute after that. (This rate varies by location, market, and local regulations.) That means five minutes of paid waiting would earn him $1.30, and the delay costs him time he could spend earning money from another ride. "My overall feeling is that passengers have no idea that making us wait, even a few seconds, can be costly," Spires said. "If you make me wait a minute or two, you're talking like a 10%, 20% pay cut," Spires said. Research has similarly found that waiting for rides can take up a significant portion of ride-hailing drivers' working time. A Cornell study of Uber and Lyft drivers in Seattle found that, once logged on and actively seeking rides, the typical driver spent about 28% of their time waiting for a ride request. The wait can be especially frustrating when a passenger has had time to prepare, Spires said. He may spend five to seven minutes driving to a pickup, while Uber sends the rider notifications that he's on his way. By the time he pulls up, he expects them to be ready. "You want to know why you got a bad rating? 90% of the time, it's because you're not standing out there waiting for me when I pull up," Spires said. A passenger leaves. Their smell might not. Spires also takes pride in keeping his Tesla clean. He said he goes through the car wash once or twice a day. Strong odors can undo that work quickly. "Weed is really bad," Spires said. "People that smoke weed, it infests your car." After some passengers get out, Spires said, he has to wipe down the seat, seat belt, and door handle. Strong pet odors can linger, too. Spires said smells can carry over to the next ride if he doesn't have time to clean between rides, which can leave the next passenger wondering where it came from. Odors can hurt his bottom line. Spires said keeping the car clean can bring a better tip from passengers.. Uber's policy says riders can be required to pay drivers up to $225 in cleaning fees for qualifying messes, but unpleasant smells or odors alone aren't eligible for a cleaning fee. He doesn't need a conversation. He does want a hello. The third behavior has little to do with money or Spires' car. Some passengers get in while they're on business calls, don't say hello, and behave "as if you're a robot," he said. Spires isn't asking them to spend the ride chatting. "Once we say hello and confirm, make eye contact, you can do whatever you want," he said. For Spires, a good interaction doesn't have to involve a big tip. He recalled recently picking up a woman in her 60s from a grocery store, where she worked the register, and driving her a couple of miles home. She tipped him $1. The trip cost about $5, he said, making her $1 tip all the more impressive. "That's the best tip you get," Spires said. Those kinds of interactions are part of why Spires said he still enjoys driving. He sees an Uber as a rare space where strangers who might otherwise never meet can connect, whether through a deeply personal conversation or a brief exchange. He said passengers have talked with him about death, breakups, politics, love, and more. Others barely speak. "But even the quiet rides have meaning and value," he said. Sometimes it's 2 a.m., jazz is playing, and the person in the back seat simply wants to get home safely, Spires said.