The Buckeyes are back at No. 1. We've compiled absolutely everything you need to know about where to watch Ohio State Buckeyes college football, including global streaming options. If you don't want to scroll any further, we've got you covered. You can live stream games through a combination of a live TV streaming service (like YouTube TV or Fubo) and Peacock in the US, and DAZN in the UK and other countries. You can access your favorite watch options from anywhere with a VPN. Where to watch Ohio State Buckeyes in the US The Ohio State Buckeyes play in the Big Ten conference, and their games will be spread across ABC, CBS, FOX, Fox Sports 1 (FS1), NBC, Big Ten Network, and Peacock. The best way for cord-cutters to ensure they can watch every game is by subscribing to a live TV streaming service and Peacock. Two of the top live TV streaming services that carry all of these networks (and more) are YouTube TV and Fubo. YouTube TV carries ABC, CBS, FOX, FS1, NBC, and the Big Ten Network in both its Main and Sports plans. The Main plan (100+ channels) costs $83 a month, but first-time customers can get $15 a month off their first five months. The Sports plan (30+ channels) costs $65 a month, but new users can get $20 a month off their first six months. YouTube TV also offers a free trial for new customers, and ESPN Unlimited is now available via YouTube TV. YouTube TV's main plan carries over 100 channels, ranging from local networks to cable favorites. Fubo also offers ABC, CBS, FOX, FS1, NBC, and the Big Ten Network across all of its plans (except Fubo Latino). Fubo Pro plans cost $89 a month, but new users can get $25 off their first month after a free trial. Fubo also unlocks access to ESPN Unlimited at no extra cost. Fubo is the streaming service for sports fans. Its huge library of channels includes regional and international sports leagues, setting it apart from the competition. You can also tack on additional programming to your plan, but it'll cost you extra. Sports-friendly Peacock plans start at $13 a month for a Premium subscription. This tier will cover fans for the Peacock exclusives (which sometimes also air on NBC Sports Network), but those looking to live stream NBC games will need the $20 a month Peacock Premium Plus plan. Peacock is a convenient streaming source for hit NBC TV shows, Universal movies, and select sports like Sunday Night Football. The service also carries its own slate of original programming. Where to watch Ohio State Buckeyes in the UK and other regions In the UK and other international markets, DAZN holds the rights to college football games. Prices for a DAZN NCAA College Sports subscription vary by region, but some games will be available for free. The platform shows up to 25 games each week. How to watch Ohio State Buckeyes from anywhere College football fans who find themselves traveling abroad don't need to worry about missing out on any of the action. A VPN (virtual private network) can help people keep using their usual streaming services from anywhere. VPNs let people temporarily change the virtual location of their devices, so websites and apps work just as they would back home. This option will work best for fans who are just traveling away from home since the services we've highlighted require country-specific forms of payment. NordVPN ranks among the best VPNs our team has tested. It's fast, easy to use, and comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. Ohio State Buckeyes Football Schedule Note: The use of VPNs is illegal in certain countries, and using a VPN to access region-locked streaming content may breach the terms of use for certain services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.