OpenAI teased a new hardware product — but it isn't the hotly anticipated personal AI device Jony Ive has been cooking up. This one is aimed at Codex AI coders. The OpenAI Developers' X account posted a product teaser on Monday. The video showed a keyboard-like device slowly flashing a rainbow of colors, followed by two logos: OpenAI and Work Louder, a Canadian-Italian hardware company that sells keyboards and accessories. "Your favorite Codex shortcuts are getting an upgrade," the description read. The post also listed July 15. Your favorite Codex shortcuts are getting an upgrade. — OpenAI Developers (@OpenAIDevs) June 29, 2026 July 15th. pic.twitter.com/xZ1ydZyt94 While the full details on the device are yet to come, an OpenAI spokesperson told Business Insider that it will be called "Codex Micro." The devices is "designed to supercharge people's codex usage," they wrote. Work Louder sells the similarly designed Creator Micro 2, a shortcut keyboard with a joystick. The devices also appear to have similar layouts but have replaced Work Louder's branding with the AI lab's hallmarks. On the left side, the Creator Micro 2 has "Work Louder © 2025," while the Codex teaser has "OpenAI 2026." On the right side, the teaser reads "You can just…" before trailing into darkness. It's likely a nod to "You can just build things," a phrase used in Codex's advertising. Dominik Kundel, an OpenAI staffer working on developer experience, posted on X that attendees of the AI Engineer World's Fair could "catch a peek" of the device. Attendees have posted photos of the device and its box online. "Working on hardware has such different timelines," Kundel wrote on LinkedIn. "Excited to see this finally come to light." — Brian Chew @AIE World Fair (@brianchew) June 29, 2026 This isn't the hotly anticipated AI device being crafted by iPhone designer Jony Ive. OpenAI CFO Sarah Friar said that the device would be revealed by the end of the year. OpenAI isn't the first AI company to make keys for vibe coders. Cursor previously gave out stand-alone "tab" keys as merch.