My youngest son developed a passion for sharks early. By the time he was 18 months old, he could identify at least 150 of the 500 known sharks through photographs in a guidebook. His interest only intensified as he grew. By the time he entered school, he could recite innumerable facts about these creatures. I encouraged his interest at every turn, purchasing books and videos and decorating his room with artifacts like megalodon and shark teeth. We even mounted a plaster cast of a shark's head on the wall that his preschool teacher had given him. No matter where we ventured on a family vacation, we always visited the nearest aquarium and were thrilled when sharks were on display. I was convinced that someday this boy would study marine biology and maybe even discover an as-yet-unnamed member of the species. That didn't happen. Instead, like two of his older brothers, he attended art school. Their early interests became their career paths I was wrong about which career this child would pursue, but looking back now at the activities that captured the attention of his three brothers and sister, I could have predicted what direction their professional lives would take before they turned 10. At 9 years old, one of them asked for a disposable camera and proceeded to take a series of truly remarkable photos. Even though I questioned the wisdom of paying tuition for a degree in photography, I did. Would he be able to support himself? Yes. Today, he takes pictures for publications like The New Yorker, the LA Times, and The Hollywood Reporter. My oldest started producing videos before he turned a decade old. He earned his first check at 14 by submitting shorts of friends wiping out while attempting rollerblading tricks to a TV show that highlighted pranks and falls. They even paid him residuals when they showed his work on repeat. After earning a BFA in filmmaking, he pivoted to design work, but even that was foreshadowed by early attempts to launch a T-shirt company. For one son, managing his allowance led him to a career in finance He'd always dabbled in sketching and drawing. When he was 12, he launched a T-shirt line for teens steeped in skate culture. I happily supported this endeavor with a small cash infusion that covered the shirts and silk-screening. I never recouped my investment, but it was worth it for him to learn valuable lessons about starting a business. Although it's not his main source of income today, he continues to design sports-themed clothing and accessories. Not all my sons are artists. My 2nd one works in finance. In a family of creatives, it's great to have one child who can manage money. Aside from a school project that included mock stock trades, he did not spend hours studying economics; however, he was always judicious with his allowance. When they started high school, I gave each child a couple of hundred dollars every few months to cover their expenses, including clothing, snacks, school supplies, and incidentals. My oldest spent all of his within a week. A few years ago, he designed an investment vehicle that major firms implement for their clients. My predictions haven't always been right I was convinced that my daughter would earn her income in an animal-related endeavor. In addition to caring for our many pets, she was constantly rescuing injured wildlife she'd find. She earned an undergraduate degree in psychology, intending to provide animal-assisted therapy to teens experiencing trauma, but the thought of returning to the classroom for multiple years of study discouraged her from entering the field. She's a paralegal now with a houseful of dogs, rabbits, and other creatures. She dreams of starting an animal rescue, so maybe I wasn't that far off in my prediction. It's easy to look back and see how each of my kids formed the lives they're living today. I'm glad I supported their interests while they were growing up even if they ultimately chose a different path. My youngest does still receive a shark-themed birthday card from me every year.