At a time when fast-growing prediction markets are jostling for tie-ups with big name sports franchises, Kalshi announced deals with five of Major League Baseball’s best known franchises. On Tuesday, the site announced it has arranged multi-year brand partnerships with The Atlanta Braves, Boston Red Sox, Los Angeles Dodgers, San Diego Padres, and San Francisco Giants. The partnerships will let the prediction market platform advertise through stadium ads, digital and radio promotions, and branded spaces. For example, the Dodgers will give Kalshi naming rights for the Golden Glove Bar under the partnership. The platform will also offer fans special promotions and in-person events at the teams’ home ballparks. The announcement comes as major prediction markets race to partner with Major League Baseball teams. These markets, which allow traders to wager on anything from sports to elections and pop culture, have exploded over the past two years. Sports make up a significant portion of trading. So far in 2026, baseball-related contracts traded on the platform totaled nearly 13 billion, according to a Kalshi spokesperson. The figure represents a 36-fold increase from the roughly 355 million contracts traded during the same period in 2025. “It only makes sense to extend that fandom to some of the most beloved baseball teams in America,” said Adam Barrick, Kalshi’s head of sports partnerships, in a statement. Kalshi declined to disclose the financial terms of the five agreements. A person familiar with Kalshi’s operation, who asked not to be identified in order to discuss forthcoming business plans, told Fortune that Kalshi is in discussions with Major League Baseball about a separate partnership with the league itself. MLB teams have spent much of 2026 forging marketing ties with prediction market platforms. Earlier this month, Polymarket announced a partnership with the New York Yankees, while sports trading app Novig signed a multiyear agreement with the New York Mets in July. In March, MLB announced a memorandum of understanding with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission outlining how the league and the regulator will share information about potential integrity issues in baseball-related event contracts. Tuesday’s announcement is part of a wider push by prediction market platforms to secure sports partnerships beyond baseball. The industry has secured deals with U.S. leagues, individual teams and FIFA. Ahead of this year’s World Cup, ADI PredictStreet signed a multiyear agreement to become the tournament’s first official prediction-market partner. The NHL, MLS and UFC have also struck similar arrangements.