Qatar Airways' Qsuite is legendary, with double beds and quad seating options that have made it one of the most coveted business-class seats in the sky. But the QSuite varies plane to plane, and the subtle yet meaningful differences can change the experience. When flying Qsuite to or from the US, chances are you'll be on an Airbus A350. As of Summer 2026, the jet serves most of Qatar's dozen US gateways. Only three destinations — Washington, DC, New York-JFK, and Seattle — have regularly scheduled Boeing 777-300ER service. Across Qatar's global network, though, the two jets are more evenly represented. The 777-300ER, a fleet that averages about 13 years old, remains an integral part of its operations across Europe, Asia, and Oceania. The A350 family's average age is about 7.4 years. No matter the plane you're on, though, you're likely to have a blast, from its tremendous privacy, luxurious bedding, and soft pajamas to its dine-on-demand meal service and extensive Oryx One entertainment system. And with Qatar rolling out Starlink across both its A350 and Boeing 777 fleets, that experience is only getting better. But flying QSuite on the two planes back-to-back — first from Casablanca to Doha on the 777 and then Doha to DC on the A350 — I've found 4 subtle differences that make the experience aboard the A350 slightly more pleasant. The Airbus' modern lighting helps to better battle jet lag The first difference is apparent the second you step on board. The Boeing 777 first entered service nearly 30 years ago, and while Qatar's jets aren't nearly that old, some of the cabin features still reflect that era. The lighting is one of those: On these jets, you'll be greeted by the harsh airplane lights most of us have become accustomed to. The A350, though, feels dramatically different. Having come to market 20 years after the 777, it sports a much more sophisticated LED lighting system. On my flight, Qatar put it to good use: when I boarded, the cabin was flooded in the airline's signature purple. That's great for Qatar's branding, but as a passenger, it also feels far warmer, more welcoming, and almost festive — which is how any good business-class flight should feel. The lighting can also be used to help battle jet lag. Throughout the flight, the crew will change the light to resemble sunrise, sunset, dusk, or nighttime to gently nudge your body clock into your new time zone. The 777 also has some adjustable lighting scenarios, but the system feels far more limited. The Airbus is noticeably quieter While both jets are among the quietest in the sky, the A350 is noticeably quieter. It's powered by one of the newest turbofans on the market: the Rolls-Royce Trent XWB. With noise requirements becoming ever stricter, Rolls has future-proofed it and designed it to remain well under the limit. That's great for people who live near airports, but it's also great for those onboard. Especially toward the front of the A350's cabin, I was able to have conversations at a normal speaking volume without much difficulty. The Airbus' cabin environment is better Unless you're a hardcore aviation geek like me, you might not immediately pick up on this next benefit when you're actually flying. But you'll definitely feel it by the time you arrive at your destination. Unlike the aluminum fuselage found on aircraft such as the 777, much of the A350's structure is made from carbon-fiber-reinforced composites. Those materials are lighter, which is great for fuel economy, but they're also more fatigue-resistant — allowing Airbus to pressurize the cabin at a lower altitude and maintain higher humidity levels. The Boeing jet's cabin altitude is around 8,000 feet, while the Airbus is around 6,000 feet — meaning passengers on the Airbus are breathing air pressurized to feel like they're about 2,000 feet lower in elevation. This can also change how full you feel after eating, and sometimes change how things taste at altitude. And the cabin is less dry, which can make a difference on a long flight and may help with sleep. After my A350 flight, I deplaned feeling noticeably more rested than after my 777 flight, even though the trek was more than twice as long — 15 hours compared to seven. I can turn the Airbus screen into a computer monitor There were two pieces of tech I really appreciate on board the A350 that are lacking on the 777. First, the A350's seat-back screen has an HDMI port. Of course, most travelers don't carry around an HDMI cable, but Qatar's crew can provide one upon request. That let me hook up my laptop to the large seatback display and effectively turn it into a second monitor. Pair that with Starlink WiFi, and Qsuite becomes a surprisingly productive workspace at 35,000 feet. The other feature might be less practical, but it is more fun. The A350 has exterior cameras that passengers can access via the entertainment system, offering views of the aircraft from around the aircraft during the flight. That means you can watch the scenery below or see the aircraft take off and land, even if you aren't in a window seat. It's a small feature, but one that I always seek out. The 777 has one main advantage While the A350 is a fantastic machine, there is one area where I preferred the Boeing: space. The 777's cabin is nearly a foot wider than the A350's, and while that might not sound like much, it makes a noticeable difference. That's especially true if you're trying to move around while service is underway, as the wider aisle makes it much easier to pass others. The suite itself is also a hair wider. That's not to say the A350 feels cramped. The size of the Qsuite remains generous on this jet, too, but those who prioritize more physical space may prefer the 777. At the end of the day, if you're in a position where you're choosing between these two planes, you have a very good problem on your hands. Still, I'd pick the A350. The 777 gives you a little more room, but the A350's quieter cabin, better lighting, more comfortable cabin environment, and additional technology make the overall experience feel noticeably newer and, more importantly, leave you feeling more refreshed at your destination. Qatar Airways had no comment.