A short-seller's uphill battle has become even steeper. Andrew Left, the famed short-seller and founder of Citron Research, was found guilty Monday in a Los Angeles court of 13 counts of securities fraud. The charges were tied to comments he made on social media regarding stocks that included Tesla, Nvidia, and Palantir, and how he traded following his comments. For an industry already battered by public criticism, regulatory scrutiny, and market pressures, market veterans say the ruling could be a potential turning point for the world of short-sellers. Arnaud Vagner, founder and director of short-selling firm Iceberg Research, told Business Insider that hostility toward the industry ultimately harms markets. "In reality, it's bad for everybody," Vagner said of the chilling effect the case could have on short-sellers, who he says serve the function of alerting investors to potential fraud and other abuses, and can help value companies short-sellers are betting against. John Sutter, a lawyer who works with short activists and whistleblowers, and who often posts commentary on X, said the verdict is likely to be the source of anxiety in the short-seller community. "I think it's caused more worry than it should among the short activist community, but they are supremely sensitive to risk and there's no question that the verdict increases their risk," he told Business Insider. Left's case could also be the litmus test that shows prosecutors can win over jurors in cases against short-sellers, Ariel Givner, founder and principal of Givner Law, told Business Insider. "I don't think this conviction means short selling is dangerous," Givner said. "I think it is now placing a bigger target between public statements and private trading. Prosecutors are going to look at that more carefully, and now we have a jury showing that they're not afraid to convict on it." The bearish investors often get a bad rap, as they profit when companies struggle. They're also considered important to the healthy functioning of the market. Sutter said that any rule or ruling that diminishes the presence of short-sellers would be bad for the market. "I just don't see any way in which a rule which would significantly curtail short activism would do anything but harm investors in the long run." The colorful world of short-sellers has taken numerous blows since its post-financial crisis peak nearly two decades ago. Since prescient calls on the housing industry from the likes of Michael Burry and Steve Eisman were immortalized and glamorized in "The Big Short," those who bet against stocks and call out what they believe to be fraudulent companies have faced: - Increasingly aggressive attacks on the industry from the likes of billionaire Elon Musk, who called short sellers "value destroyers" and has targeted traders such as Jim Chanos and David Einhorn. - A retail-investor-driven short squeeze that put onetime investing star Gabe Plotkin's Melvin Capital out of business - A blistering bull market rally since the end of 2022 that's made it increasingly difficult to short stocks without getting burned Left, who faces years in prison when sentenced in August, testified that he never lied to his followers, and said in a post following the verdict that he will keep fighting for "free, honest speech." Left's arrest in 2024 had already put the industry on notice. Prominent peers, including Carson Block's Muddy Waters, added to their disclosures, saying that after publishing research, they may begin covering their short positions, or cashing out a bet. Edwin Dorsey, who runs "The Bear Cave" newsletter and who attended some of the hearings in person, said he was "sad and surprised" by the verdict. He told Business Insider that "the government could have made the same case against almost every activist short-seller." "This verdict further muddies the regulatory landscape for activist short sellers," said Dorsey, who writes about the short-selling world and its targets but does not manage money himself. "I disagree with the jury; I support Andrew Left, and I hope he wins on appeal." Givner said that she hopes the verdict leads to clearer disclosures, not fewer investors willing to challenge companies. "I hope that we see a beef-up of legal disclaimers, and I hope that we do see a compliance shift across the industry—clearer disclosures, documented holding rationales, maybe even more lawyers getting involved in reviewing reports," she said. "I hope that that's the effect, rather than a dramatic spike in indictments." For Vagner's part, he said Iceberg doesn't plan to change how he shares information online, including new short reports and bets his firm is making against companies. "Everybody has different practices, but I think it's a job where everybody has to be very careful," Vagner said. "I don't think it's going to change anything about the way we work at Iceberg Research."