Trade jobs are having a moment. Touted as the smarter, safer alternative to “irrelevant” overpriced degrees and entry-level white-collar jobs (which tech CEOs warn could soon be swallowed by AI), traditional manual work like welding, plumbing, and carpentry is experiencing a resurgence among Gen Z. Around 78% of Americans say they’ve noticed a spike in young people turning to jobs like carpentry, electrical work, and welding, according to a 2024 Harris Poll for Intuit Credit Karma. They’re not wrong. Trade school enrollment really has been surging post-pandemic, even outpacing university enrollment. And it makes sense: six-figure salaries without student loans, the freedom to work for yourself, and hands-on, real-world skills that can’t be outsourced to a chatbot. But new research suggests the reality isn’t as stable—or as future-proof—as it’s being pitched. According to a new WalletHub study ranking the best and worst entry-level U.S. jobs in 2026, trade roles dominate the bottom of the list. Welders, automotive mechanics, boilermakers, and drafters all rank among the least promising career starters based on WalletHub’s determined factors including immediate opportunity (average starting salary, number of job openings, and unemployment rate), growth potential (job and income growth), and job hazards. The 10 worst entry-level jobs - Computer Numeric Control Machine Programmer - Boilermaker - Automotive Mechanic - Emergency Dispatcher - Welder According to the researchers, these roles scored poorly due to limited job availability and weak growth potential, as well as their potentially hazardous nature. Plus, while you’d assume the physical nature of trade work makes them immune to automation, WalletHub’s analyst Chip Lupo tells Fortune that the data shows they’re also vulnerable. “New technologies like prefabrication and robotics are starting to take over parts of the workload, which can reduce demand,” Lupo explained. Just like office workers who are experiencing mass layoffs and are at the mercy of recessions, rate hikes, and demand, so too are tradies. “Trade jobs are closely tied to industries like construction and manufacturing, which means they are sensitive to changes in the economy,” Lupo added. “When these industries slow down, projects often get delayed or canceled, which can lead to job losses.” “On top of that, some trade jobs are seasonal, which means that bad weather or off-peak months can dry up construction and maintenance work for several weeks.” A reality check: Tradies are also among the unhappiest workers Of course, not everyone is becoming a tradie for the money. Gen Zers previously told Fortune a key element is having the freedom to be their own boss and not be chained to a desk. But in reality, it might not actually make them happier than a nine-to-five office job. That’s because those freedoms come at a cost: long hours and manual work. Another study ranked electricians as the least happy workers of all. According to the research, the physically demanding nature of the job and 40-plus hour workweeks weren’t made up for by the just “decent” salary. Construction workers, warehouse managers, and construction project managers also made the list of unhappiest jobs for having “unpredictable hours,” topped with their roles being stressful and taxing. Alarmingly, not a single trade job made the list of happiest jobs. Have you gone down the traditional trade jobs route and now regret it? Fortune wants to hear from you. Get in touch: orianna.royle@fortune.com A version of this story originally published on Fortune.com on July 2, 2025.