College football is officially back. We've rounded up everything you need to know about where to watch Alabama Crimson Tide football. The easiest way to live stream every Alabama Crimson Tide college football game is via ESPN Unlimited in the US. Coverage is available through DAZN in the UK and other regions. You can access your streaming options from anywhere with a VPN. Where to watch Alabama Crimson Tide in the US Like the rest of the major college football teams, Alabama games are spread across several different channels throughout the season. Since Alabama plays in the SEC, all 12 Longhorns games will air or stream on ESPN-owned networks and services, like ESPN, ABC, ESPN2, ESPNU, the SEC Network, and the ESPN streaming service. This means that fans will be able to live stream all of the action through an ESPN Unlimited subscription, which carries live streams from flagship ESPN networks and ESPN+ and SECN+ streaming-exclusive content. Subscriptions cost $32 a month and unlock a wealth of live sports programming, including comprehensive US Open coverage. ESPN Unlimited has everything from ESPN Plus, in addition to all that the ESPN linear networks have to offer, along with some exclusive events not found on broadcast channels. A live TV streaming service can also help you tune in, and it might be a better fit if you're hoping to watch other teams that are available on non-ESPN networks and services. YouTube TV and Fubo are two of the best options in the game, and both platforms offer budget-friendly sports packages. YouTube TV carries ABC, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, and the SEC Network in both its Sports and Main plans. The Sports plan costs $65 a month, but new users can get $20 a month off their first six months after a free trial. The Main plan costs $83 a month, but first-time customers can get $15 a month off their first five months after a free trial. ESPN Unlimited is now available through YouTube TV. YouTube TV's main plan carries over 100 channels, ranging from local networks to cable favorites. Fubo offers ABC, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, and the SEC Network in all of its plans (other than Latino). The Pro plan costs $89 a month, but first-time customers can save $25 on their first month after a free trial. These Fubo plans also unlock access to ESPN Unlimited at no extra cost. Fubo is the streaming service for sports fans. Its huge library of channels includes regional and international sports leagues, setting it apart from the competition. You can also tack on additional programming to your plan, but it'll cost you extra. Where to watch Alabama Crimson Tide in the UK and other regions College football coverage will be available on DAZN in the UK and other international markets this year. A DAZN NCAA College Sports subscription shows up to 25 games each week. Subscription prices vary by region, but a few games will be available for free. How to watch Alabama Crimson Tide from anywhere If you're traveling abroad, you can still keep up with every game with the help of a VPN. VPNs, or virtual private networks, are easy-to-use cybersecurity tools that let people temporarily change their virtual location. This way, they can still access their favorite websites and apps from anywhere in the world. Since the services we've highlighted require country-specific payment methods, this option will work best for fans who are just traveling away from home. NordVPN is one of the best VPNs on the market. It's speedy, secure, and has a 30-day money-back guarantee if you find that it's not what you're looking for. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. Alabama Crimson Tide Football Schedule Note: The use of VPNs is illegal in certain countries and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content might constitute a breach of the terms of use for certain services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.