From credit risks to AI to the November midterm elections, David Solomon has a lot on his mind. Speaking on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in North Carolina on Monday, the Goldman Sachs CEO laid out in an interview with CNBC what he's watching in markets and the economy. Even as stock market volatility and economic uncertainty persist, Solomon's outlook is primarily bullish, particularly when it comes to AI as a transformational force. "There'll always be winners and losers, some good investments, some bad investments," he told CNBC about his view on the AI investment boom that's been a driving force of the market this year. "But the direction of travel, as this gets adopted into the economy and gets adopted with enterprises and with individuals, is a productivity boom that I think is going to be extraordinary." Solomon added that his outlook on the broader US economy is constructive, highlighting the strong investment cycle and earnings growth, both of which have spurred growth for financial markets and the broader economy. He acknowledged that factors such as ongoing geopolitical tensions in the Middle East and disruptive tariff policies may pose headwinds for markets in the near future but not enough for his positive outlook to change. The CEO added that he isn't too concerned about the state of the credit market, despite the recent volatility that has sparked concern for some investors. He largely dismissed concerns about the flood of new issuance when asked about his thoughts on record borrowing. "I don't see a lot of risks in the system," Solomon said. "A lot of the credit issuance is coming from very, very large companies that have fundamentally strong underlying cash flow characteristics, and they're choosing to take their earnings from other businesses and invest it." While Solomon said he sees the credit market as an area that should be monitored, he added that his team is watching it closely and at present, Goldman's analysts aren't too concerned with what they see. As the market moves into fall, the focus is shifting toward the November midterm elections. Some Wall Street analysts have predicted the coming political contest could mark a pivotal turning point for markets, and Solomon says he's focused on policy outcomes with specific impacts on US businesses. "The swings in our political process can create risks or changes in the way those policy actions are implemented," he said. Solomon noted, though, that he considers Goldman to have successfully navigated Capitol Hill changes in the past and expects the bank to continue doing so, regardless of whether the election results in a shift in the balance of power in Congress.