SpaceX stock's post-IPO struggles might be signaling an opportunity for investors to get in cheap, one of the firm's big bulls on Wall Street says. Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas wrote this week about the company's plans to spend $100 billion on a new Starbase launch facility in Vermilion Parish, Louisiana. Jonas, an enduring Elon Musk bull who has also covered Tesla for the bank, wrote that investors don't appear to fully appreciate the opportunity of "rockets on the bayou." "We think investors have a unique opportunity to 'revisit' SPCX stock right on top of the IPO price with arguably even greater momentum in fundamentals across Space, Connectivity and Enterprise AI," Jonas wrote. Construction on the new launch base will being next year, with the first launches to begin in 2029. Jonas added that his team's outlook on SpaceX stock has improved significantly following the company's recent Q2 earnings, even as the results sent share prices lower following forecasts of higher capex spending. He said that following the report, investors have more information regarding how the stock has performed since the expiration of the first lockup periods, which didn't end up being the headwind many had feared. Now, Morgan Stanley says, SpaceX's Louisiana facility could be a new catalyst for the stock to gain. "We do not believe investors appreciate the scale of what SpaceX is planning with Starship," he said. "In our view, SPCX is attractively valued, trading at 10x sales (70% growth) and 25x EBIT (113% growth) on our FY28 forecasts." The bank's bullish view is in contrast to some prominent investors, who have argued that Musk's rocket and AI company is overvalued. Hedge fund billionaire David Einhorn was also bearish on SpaceX in his latest letter to investors. But Jonas is focused on the company's ability to send rockets into space, and he maintains that the new facility will help SpaceX continue scaling, noting that it will likely become its largest base to date and will help support thousands of launches every year after completion. The choice of location for the new facility is also an advantage, he said. "The State of Louisiana also sits in a unique position for southward launches over the Gulf that would be challenging from FL, TX, or CA without passing directly over populated areas, thereby allowing SpaceX to expand launch access to dawn-dusk sun- synchronous polar orbits directly relevant for orbital compute," Jonas added. The bank rates SpaceX stock "Overweight," and has a price target of $300 a share, 113% higher than Thursday's price.