As of 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time on August 31, 2026, oil sold for $93.03 per barrel (using Brent as the benchmark, which we’ll get into momentarily). That’s $1.06 higher than yesterday morning and approximately a $25 rise over the past year. Check Out Our Daily Rates Reports - Discover the highest high-yield savings rates, up to 4.50% for September 4, 2026. - Discover the highest CD rates, up to 4.50% for September 4, 2026. - Discover the top CD rates from major banks on September 4, 2026. - Discover the current mortgage rates for September 4, 2026. - Discover current refi mortgage rates report for September 4, 2026. - Discover current ARM mortgage rates report for September 4, 2026. - Discover current HELOC rates for September 4, 2026. - Discover the current price of gold for September 4, 2026. - Discover the current price of silver for September 4, 2026. Will oil prices go up? It’s impossible to predict the future of oil prices. Several factors determine the movement of oil, but it ultimately boils down to supply and demand. Again, when threats of economic downturn, war, etc. are high, the oil trajectory can turn rapidly. How oil prices translate to gas pump prices When you pay for gas at the pump, you’re paying for more than just the crude oil itself; you’re also springing for links along the chain, such as the refineries and wholesalers—not to mention taxes and local gas station markups. Still, the crude oil aspect affects the final price most dramatically, as it typically accounts for more than half the price per gallon. When oil prices spike, so do gas prices. And frustratingly, when oil prices drop, gas prices tend to take their time drifting down to the lower price (sometimes referred to as “rockets and feathers”). The role of the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve In case of emergency, the U.S. has a store of crude oil known as the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Its primary purpose is energy security in case of disaster (think sanctions, severe storm damage, even war). But it can also go a long way toward softening crippling price hikes during supply shocks. It’s not a long-term answer—more of an immediate relief to assist the consumer and keep critical parts of the economy running, like key industries, emergency services, public transportation, etc. How oil and natural gas prices are linked Oil and natural gas are both major energy fuels. A big change in oil prices can affect natural gas by extension. For example, if oil prices increase, some industries may swap natural gas for some segments of their operations where possible—which increases demand for natural gas. Historical performance of oil When examining oil’s performance, there are generally two major benchmarks: - Brent crude oil is the main global oil benchmark. - West Texas Intermediate (WTI) is the main benchmark of North America. Between the two, Brent better represents global oil performance because it prices much of the world’s traded crude. And, it’s often the best way to track historical oil performance. In fact, even the U.S. Energy Information Administration now uses Brent as its primary reference in its Annual Energy Outlook. Looking at the Brent benchmark across several decades, oil has been anything but steady. It’s seen spikes due to factors such as wars and supply cuts, and it’s also seen crashes from global recessions and an oversupply (called a “glut”). For example: - The early 1970s brought the first big oil shock when the Middle East cut exports and imposed an embargo on the U.S. and others during the Yom Kippur War. - Prices dropped in the mid-1980s for reasons such as lower demand and more non-OPEC oil producers entering the industry. - Prices spiked again in 2008 with increased global demand, but it soon plummeted alongside the global financial crisis. - During the 2020 COVID lockdown, oil demand collapsed like never before—bringing prices below $20 per barrel. All to say, oil’s historical performance has been anything but smooth. Again, it’s hugely affected by wars, recessions, OPEC whims, evolving energy initiatives and policies, and much more. Energy coverage from Fortune Looking to stay up-to-date regarding the latest energy developments? Check out our recent coverage: - Venezuelans bash their government’s deal handing over vast oil reserves to the U.S. - The mayor of this desert city likens the U.S. West’s water crisis to planning for a meteor. - The federal government will control a company with the world’s 2nd largest reserves Frequently asked questions How is the current price of oil per barrel actually determined? The current price of oil per barrel depends largely on supply and demand, including news about potential future supply and demand (geopolitics, decisions made by OPEC+, etc.). In the U.S., prices also move based on how friendly an administration is to drilling, as it can affect future supply. For example, 2025 saw the Trump administration move to reopen more than 1.5 million acres in the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil and gas leasing, reversing the Biden administration’s policy of limiting oil drilling in the Arctic. How often does the price of oil change during the day? The price of oil updates constantly when the “futures” markets are open. A futures market is effectively an auction where people agree to buy or sell oil in the future. As long as people and companies are trading contracts, the oil price is changing. How does U.S. shale oil production affect the current price of oil? In short, shale is rock that contains oil and natural gas. Think of shale as energy yet to be tapped. The more shale the U.S. accesses, the more energy we’ll have—and the more easily oil prices can keep from spiking as much thanks to a greater supply. How does the current price of oil impact inflation and the broader economy? When oil is expensive, it tends to make everyday items cost more. This can be related to energy (your heating, gas utilities, etc.), but it’s also due to the logistics involved with making those items accessible to you. Shipping, for example, can affect the price of things at the grocery store, as it’s more expensive to get those products from warehouses and farms onto the shelf.