- The Adidas Originals Wide Leg Satin Pants have taken over every mom Facebook group I'm in. - They're sold out — and have been selling out on repeat since they dropped. - With 414 reviews and a 4.7-star rating, the hype is clearly justified. I'm very easy to influence. So when I started seeing the Adidas Originals Wide Leg Satin Animal Print Pants pop up in almost every one of my mom and fashion groups on Facebook, I knew that they were going to become a thing. I have been in enough mom group trend cycles to know that when something hits this fever pitch, there's usually a reason. So I did what any reasonable person would do: I went to find them. They are sold out everywhere I ended up buying an XS — the only size available when I went looking for a pair three weeks ago — even though I'm typically a 4 to 6 in pants. Surprisingly, they fit perfectly. The elastic waist is doing a lot of good work here, and the wide leg silhouette is forgiving in the best way. The length runs long on smaller frames, and at 5'6'', the XS runs a tad too long on me (I'm debating whether to hem them or commit to wearing them with platforms). The pants are currently marked down from $70 to $42 on the Adidas site — but it almost doesn't matter because they are sold out. They have 414 reviews and a 4.7-star rating on adidas.com, which is practically a standing ovation. At discksportinggoods.com, they've earned a 4.8 rating from 154 reviews. The adidas description says these are "a major pivot from a minimalist aesthetic," and that sentence alone explains why mom groups are losing their minds over them. I'm so over minimalism, with neutral everything and quiet luxury. They are so easy to style At first, I wore them only with neutrals like white tees and sneakers, but these are so cool that I've ventured into pairing them with my checkered Vans and loud T-shirts, and those work, too. I had also purchased the satin shirt as part of the set, but my package was lost in the mail, and I took that as a sign that maybe I only needed the pants. I recently took a girls' trip to Las Vegas, and I knew I had to bring my new go-to pants. I got so many compliments from other women while walking through the casinos. My friend also pointed out these Amazon dupes that were everywhere — a potential solution if you can't find the Adidas one in your size. And they are only $24.99. If you really want the OGs, your best bet is to check the Adidas site and Dick's Sporting Goods repeatedly and set up stock alerts if you can. The animal print version has been restocking in waves, selling out almost immediately each time — the same pattern I saw with the platform Crocs I bought two summers ago. I love my pants so much that I went ahead and placed an order for the Adidas x Farm Rio premium pants. These have a much bolder print, but I think I'm entering my maximalism era thanks to the brand. My advice is that if you want the popular satin pants, get on the waitlist now. And if a size appears in your cart, do not hesitate. Worst-case scenario: if you don't like them, you will for sure find someone who wants to buy them off you.