The FIFA World Cup is almost here, and the tournament will be broadcast around the world in several different languages. We've compiled everything you need to know about how to watch the World Cup in Spanish, including free streaming options. If you're in the US, you can live stream all matches through Telemundo on Peacock. In Spain, select matches will be available for free on RTVE. You can access your streaming options from anywhere with the help of a VPN. Keep reading to learn global viewing options and other details about the tournament. How to watch the World Cup in Spanish in the US While the English-language World Cup broadcast rights go to FOX in the US, Telemundo holds the Spanish-language US broadcast rights. The easiest and cheapest way to live stream all 104 Spanish-language Telemundo matches is via Peacock. Sports-friendly subscriptions start at $11 a month for Peacock Premium, but you can upgrade to Peacock Premium Plus for $17 a month if you're interested in accessing an NBC live stream and ad-free on-demand content. In a special move, Peacock Select subscribers will be able to watch matches from the first couple of days of the tournament, but you'll need one of the Premium subscriptions to watch the full World Cup. Peacock is a convenient streaming source for hit NBC TV shows, Universal movies, and select sports like Sunday Night Football. The service also carries its own slate of original programming. How to watch the World Cup in Spanish in Spain In Spain, World Cup coverage is spread out a bit, but select matches will be shown on RTVE and live stream on RTVE Play. This is a free streaming option. We expect the platform to prioritize matches featuring Spain's national team, but it will likely also show other notable games. For more comprehensive coverage, fans will need a paid DAZN subscription. How to watch the World Cup in Spanish from anywhere If you're away from the location where your streaming service works, you can still access your watch options (including the free ones) with the help of a VPN. Short for virtual private networks, VPNs are handy tech tools that allow people to temporarily alter their virtual locations. They're especially popular among those looking to keep up with their usual websites and apps while traveling abroad or hoping to upgrade their cybersecurity. NordVPN is one of the best VPNs we've tested. It's fast, easy to use, and offers a massive selection of worldwide servers. Plus, it comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee, so it's no sweat if you find that it's not helping you out. From now until June 9, our exclusive INSIDER code can help you save up to 79% on select plans as part of a limited-time NordVPN deal. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. When are the first FIFA World Cup games? The first FIFA World Cup game is a Mexico vs. South Africa match-up on Thursday, June 11 at 3 p.m. ET / 8 p.m. BST / 3 a.m. AWST (next-day). A South Korea vs. Czechia match will follow that same day at 10 p.m. ET / 3 a.m. BST / 10 a.m. AWST (next-day). How much are FIFA World Cup tickets? It should be no surprise that tickets are pricey, given the rarity and popularity of the tournament. You can learn more about resale prices in our official guide on where to buy World Cup tickets. Note: The use of VPNs is illegal in certain countries and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content might constitute a breach of the terms of use for certain services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.