At around 10:20 a.m. on Saturday, at Westfield Topanga mall in Greater Los Angeles, the manager of the Swatch store stepped out to address the crowd of hundreds that had gathered outside the door. The much-hyped Swatch x Audemars Piguet Royal Pop, he announced through a megaphone, had officially sold out. “So everybody’s fucked right here?” someone shouted from the throng. “Yes,” the manager replied. Some of the people waiting had been there for nearly two days, hoping to purchase one of the colorful, octagonal pocket watches to clip to their bags or immediately flip for several times the $400 retail price. Nearly all of them were forced to leave empty-handed, unable to get within even 100 feet of the store. Given the chaos at other Swatch locations around the world, however, the group at Westfield Topanga got off easy. Crowds outside at least 16 stores—including Chicago, Barcelona, and Dubai—were so unruly that Swatch employees were forced to close without selling a single Royal Pop. In Milan, a brawl between two people outside the store ended on the ground. On Long Island, those waiting in line—“Swatch pyschos,” per Page Six—were dismissed with pepper spray. One of the disappointed folks at Westfield Topanga was Carter, who drove up from Orange County at 3 a.m. on Saturday. He was bummed but unsurprised to be leaving without a Royal Pop—he estimated he was about 350th in the line, which snaked around the mall and began forming in earnest on Thursday (unlike other locations, security at Topanga forbade people from lining up any earlier). It was only hours before the store opened that the line was finally moved outside into a parking garage. From there, a Swatch employee escorted a small group to the walled-off area outside of the store. When I arrived at the scene on Saturday morning, a small line of people whose names were on the list were waiting in line outside the shop to purchase their watches, with a disorganized swarm of hundreds more beyond them. People in the crowd guessed that only around 50 to 100 watches were actually sold. Ra’ees Nasir was one of the lucky few. He arrived on Thursday, he told me, with nothing but “a chair and hope.” When he was finally brought into the store along with just one other customer, Nasir chose the pink-and-yellow Otg Roz model, because “the women want what they want and the fellas are going to buy what the women want,” he said. After he made his purchase, Swatch employees gave Nasir a brief presentation on how the watch works. Nasir then walked out of the store, past the barricades and assembled police officers, and headed into the crowd, where he sold his Royal Pop within minutes. Immediately afterward, he fanned out his bounty of $100 bills, 23 in all, from an eager collector. He hopes to use the money to continue trading up until he has enough to buy an actual Royal Oak with a skeleton dial, a model that starts at $86,800. During our chat, Nasir handed me his phone and asked me to film a video of him, in which he laid out his plan to acquire the AP before his birthday on August 15th. His next move, he said, is to buy a low-end Rolex to trade with—maybe a Datejust or Oyster Perpetual. Nearly everyone I spoke with on launch day was planning to flip their Royal Pops. Giovanni, who owns a handbag brand, had accumulated three over the course of the morning. That was the most I saw one person have, but rumors quickly spread of a family—kids and all—that had camped out together and walked away with five. Despite lining up for 21 hours, Giovanni was turned away. Instead, he paid between 2,000 and $2,800 apiece for his trio. He’d already found committed buyers for all three watches, whom Giovanni claimed were paying him $5,000 each for managing the acquisition. “Everybody’s happy. It’s capitalism at its worst,” he said, before correcting himself: “At its best.” Reselling the Royal Pop is a booming business, at least for the moment. Through the weekend, over 1,400 Royal Pops were sold through StockX, according to a representative for the company. The average price for a watch was $1,377, while lanyards on their own sold for an average of $205. Eleven people bought the full set at an average price of $11,570 (if you bought them all at retail, the cost would be $3,240). The most-purchased versions on StockX are, in order: the blue Lan Ba, the black-and-white Ocho Negro, the Otg Roz, and the white Huit Blanc. Still, many people sold their prizes for far more than the average: On eBay, one full set hammered for $27,900, while both a Otg Roz and a La Ban sold for $6,547 each. At Westfield Topanga, I only met one person who planned to actually keep the Royal Pop. TV producer David Weintraub—who was dressed in Amiri pants, a Chrome Hearts-customized Rolex, and a hat with the logo of Waystar Royco, the fictional company at the center of Succession—sent two men who work security for his company to wait in line on Thursday. He arrived on Saturday morning with his young daughter, Stevie Rose, and walked away with the Ocho Negro, the Otg Roz, and a pair of sugar cookies that Swatch employees handed out to those who waited. Stevie was excited to clip one of the watches on her bag. “It’s an AP Labubu,” Weintraub said. Buying the watches, Weintraub said, “involved top people that work for me, and they did the work, and we all have lived basically in the peripheral of this for the last 48 hours in order to secure two watches.” In the days leading up to the launch, Weintraub ferried extra phone batteries, blankets, and food to his employees, who had come prepared with folding chairs. Weintraub, who grew up wearing Swatches, explained the moment was important to him “because we’re teaching my daughter about watches today.” (I spoke with Weintraub again on Monday. He’s thinking about busting down the pink version with diamonds.) Eventually, Swatch announced that not only were the Royal Pops sold out, but the entire store would close down for the day after all the pieces were allocated. Still, the crowd stayed pressed up against the barricades set up around the mall, as if they expected by some miracle to be rewarded for their unremitting hope. Many people made content around the launch, holding their phone cameras up to grab footage of themselves at the store or asking actual buyers if they could see and take pictures of their watches. Business at the mall began to return to normal, and the Swatch crowd mingled with regular shoppers. One woman and her son asked what everyone was gathered for, and I explained what the Royal Pop was. Her eyes widened when I showed her the picture I’d taken of Nasir with his half-moon of cash. “I didn’t know Swatch sold watches for that much,” she said. I asked her if she had ever heard of Audemars Piguet’s Royal Oak before. She hadn’t. Her first impression of the flagship model from one of Switzerland’s most prestigious watchmakers came on Saturday—in a throng of people outside the Swatch store at her local mall.