Downtown Las Vegas eatery closes after 15 years An eatery known for clogging arteries in downtown Las Vegas has closed its doors after 15 years. Heart Attack Grill, infamous for its Quadruple Bypass Burgers, large outdoor scale (those 350 pounds or heavier ate free), and hospital theme, closed at 9 a.m. Monday, as confirmed by Neonopolis owner Rohit Joshi. The restaurant’s website on Monday displayed a bold statement that pointed at high prices in Las Vegas casinos, “corporate greed,” exclusion of the middle class and the restaurant being considered “gauche.” “Our core value, ‘eat big and laugh loud,’ no longer fits a city peddling forty-dollar ‘artisanal avocado toast.’ The honest, heavy-duty calories that built our reputation are now considered gauche by a city that has excluded the middle class and lost its swagger in the process,” the statement read in part. It goes on to add that America’s obesity rate went from 30 percent to nearly 45 percent in the restaurant’s 21 years (originating in Tempe, Arizona), and “we pat ourselves on the back for leading the charge!” The statement also says Heart Attack Grill is seeking new opportunities “to continue our high-calorie mission.” The restaurant has not existed without controversy. In 2012, the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine called for its closure, and in 2019, founder Jon Basso was accused of sexual harassment by a server. Over the years, the eatery has been associated with a handful of medical issues, including an actual heart attack in 2012 and the death of a daily patron in 2013. But that hadn’t stopped the hungry from leaning into the gimmick. Joshi said a lack of tourism has affected businesses in Neonopolis. The retail center hosts a slew of restaurants, bars, shops and experiences, including Fat Tuesday, Notoriety, Toy Shack and The Nerd bar. “It’s definitely slow in traffic,” he said, “and the hotels are at a low occupancy rate. … Downtown is going through some changes. Hopefully it’ll get better.” He added some tenants have been struggling for the past six to eight months. “People are just not spending enough money,” he said. “We’ve got to find new ways of doing it.” Many of the Neonopolis businesses have done well: Joshi said the Fremont location of Denny’s is the fourth-best performing store in the country, according to a company rep; Dirt Dog, a hot dog shop, has found success there; and Alebrijes by Chef Paco on the third floor brought chef Paco Cortes’ following with him. Joshi also said they have new plans for Neonopolis to come.