The best portable power stations keep you online and charged up when you need it most. Pack one along for a weekend at the campground, use one to keep the refrigerator running during a power outage, or carry one into the backyard for an outdoor movie night. They can also serve as a cleaner and quieter generator alternative. Plus, you can safely use a portable power station inside your home. I talked with three experts and tested models from top brands to uncover the six best portable power stations. Our top pick, the Jackery Explorer 1000 V2 combines ease of use with all-around solid performance. If you're looking for a budget model, consider the Bluetti Elite 30 V2. It's best suited for shorter outages or for keeping smaller devices charged up. We also found models that are great for quick recharging, using with solar panels, taking to the campground, as a home backup, and for heavy-duty situations like a job site or DIY home projects. Our picks of the best portable power stations Best overall: Jackery Explorer 1000 V2 - See at Amazon Best budget Bluetti Elite 30 V2 - See at Amazon Best home backup: Anker Solix F3800 - See at Amazon Fastest recharging: Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 - See at Amazon Best for camping: Bluetti AC180 - See at Amazon Best heavy-duty: Goal Zero Yeti 1500 - See at Amazon Best overall This ultraportable generator can reach a full charge within an hour and supports solar charging with optional add-on solar panels. It weighs just 23 pounds and can support one to three days of minor off-grid activity, such as powering small appliances and charging phones and laptops. - Intuitive operation - Manageable weight with foldable handle - Excellent actual capacity vs. stated performance - Faster and slower charging options in the app - Only one high-powered USB-C port - AC ports are a little close together/cramped - 200 watt maximum solar output Reliable power with an easy-to-carry design. The Jackery Explorer 1000 V2 can power up devices on the go. The 24-pound device has a compact footprint that's easy to carry, thanks to a foldable handle that lets you carry it with one hand, unlike models with built-in side handles, which tend to be easiest to carry with both hands. In our testing, it was one of the best performers in actual power output relative to stated power output, achieving 90% efficiency. When stress-tested, the Jackery 1000 V2 powered a space heater for 42 minutes that pulled 1,376W. This high-draw test is useful for stress testing high-wattage, but in the real world,the Jackery Explorer 1000 V2 can recharge smaller items like your phone, wireless earbuds, portable speaker, and your laptop. If your phone supports 15W charging, the Jackery 1000 V2 will take about 29 hours to recharge. If you plan to use it during a power outage, it'll keep a 200W refrigerator operating for close to four hours. Various port options and a built-in light. The Jackery power station has three standard AC ports, two USB-C ports, and one USB-A port. That should give most people plenty of recharging versatility. One of the USB-C ports can output a hefty 100W, ideal for charging laptops. The unit can handle a sustained output of 1500W, making it capable of powering up numerous devices at once. During a power outage, it could power a table lamp and a CPAP machine, and recharge a phone for about a day if sleeping for eight hours, using a lamp for 10 hours, and recharging the phone twice. The built-in LED light is useful during a power outage or to illuminate a dark campsite. The power drawn from using the light is negligible, so there's no worry about using it as you desire. Recharging options are plentiful and can maximize battery health. It's easy to plug the Jackery into a wall outlet for standard AC charging. In our testing, the Jackery Explorer 1000 V2 charged back to 100% in about 80 minutes. From the app, you can also choose a fast, emergency recharge option that gets back to full charge in about one hour. The feature is useful in situations that require a quick charge, but Jackery doesn't recommend using it regularly since it can damage the battery with long-term use. The app also has a slower recharging option that focuses on keeping sound to a minimum. Best budget If you’re on a budget or don’t need massive amounts of power, the Bluetti Elite 30 V2 has a compact design and great port options. It’s easy to carry around, and we also like the range of colorway options. - Near silent operation - Dual high-powered USB-C ports - Compact and lightweight - Not designed for heavy draw - Slow recharging given the size - No expansion ability Reliable portable power station under $500. At full price, the Bluetti Elite 30 V2 sells for $299 (and it's often on sale for as low as $220), and it offers a great value-to-power ratio. In our testing, it ran a small 458W space heater for about 30 minutes. Bluetti claims it has a 10-millisecond uninterrupted power supply (UPS), meaning it'll take over in 10 milliseconds or less if grid power cuts, giving uninterrupted power to a WiFi router or a desktop computer. Emergency power supply that's easy to carry around with plenty of ports. Those using a portable power station for home backup can make use of the Bluetti Elite 30 V2's compact and lightweight design. Since it weighs under 10 pounds, it's easy to move from room to room. The dual AC ports, dual high-wattage USB-C, and dual USB-A ports offer a great variety, given its lower price point and small physical size. I also appreciate that Bluetti made this model in a range of colorways. Instead of offering the standard black option, the Elite 30 V2 comes in fun colorways like blue, green, and purple. If you plan to use a power station in a kids' room during an outage or while camping, this could be a fun element. Best for light use or short power interruptions. The Bluetti Elite 30 V2 is ideal for a short weekend away or for locations that don't typically experience prolonged power outages. Take it camping for the weekend, and you can recharge a phone about a dozen times when pulling 15W per charge. If you're hoping for whole-home backup or plan to use heavy-draw appliances during an outage, like an air fryer or espresso machine, and keep the refrigerator running, you'll likely want a larger battery capacity. Best home backup The Anker Solix F3800 Portable Power Station combines power capacity and versatility with future expandability and solar charging potential. It's an excellent option to have on hand for power outages. - Produced 3,300 Wh AC power in our tests - 14 ports/outlets - 6,000-watt continuous output - Easy to use - Charges quickly with wall outlet, solar, or car charging - Heavy - Takes 4,590 Wh to fully charge Big power for when the house goes offline. In our testing, the Anker Solix F3800 produced 3,300 Wh of AC power and offers an impressive 14 ports and outlets. For those who live in an area where the power goes out often, the Solix F3800 provides reassurance that the refrigerated and frozen food won't spoil and that you'll be able to keep phones charged and use the coffee maker come morning. It's powerful enough to keep many appliances juiced up at once. Our tester plugged in a mini fridge, a fan, and a light into the fully charged Solix F3800, drawing a combined 170W for 20 hours before the battery ran out. In another instance, that battery power would keep a CPAP machine running for about 55 hours. Connect the Solix F3800 with up to 2,400W of solar input, and you get a powerful solar generator for home backup. If you want to use as a whole-home backup, you'll need to purchase a power panel to connect the F3800 to your home's electrical system. Port versatility is plentiful. The Solix F3800 falls into the category of a portable power station, but it's only barely portable. At 132 pounds, it's a chore to get it up stairs, but Anker added heavy-duty wheels and a telescoping handle that makes it easy to roll on a level surface. Given its larger size, Anker took advantage of the space to add plentiful ports. It has six standard AC outlets (all grounded three-prong), a NEMA L14-30R AC outlet (typical for dryers), a NEMA 14-50 AC outlet (useful for RVs and EVs), three USB-C, two USB-A, and a car socket outlet. Our tester also noted the convenience of not needing to use a 240-volt adapter when powering up heavy appliances like an oven, dryer, or EV charging. The Solix F3800 can handle those directly in their appropriate outlets. If the goal is whole-home backup, but you lack the space to store the Solix F3800, consider the EcoFlow Delta 3 Ultra Plus. It offers slightly less battery capacity at 3,072Wh, but it's also significantly smaller and easier to stash away when not in use. If you're shopping for a portable power station for an apartment, the EcoFlow might be a better fit. Read our Anker Solix F3800 review. Fastest recharging The Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 offers about 2,000Wh in a relatively compact and portable unit. Its quick recharge speed of about 80 minutes has made this my go-to model for everything from camping to power outages. - Fully recharges in 80 minutes - Easy to carry around despite 2,000Wh capacity - Expandable capacity - Heavier - Get hot A powerhouse ratio of battery capacity vs. size. The Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 has a stated capacity of 2,048Wh with very comparable dimensions to the Solix C1000 Gen 2, which has exactly half the power of the C2000 Gen 2. After testing dozens of portable power stations over the years, the Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 is my go-to unit because of its power-to-size ratio. It's not the lightest model, weighing almost 42 pounds, but I find it portable enough to carry around the house or lift into my car's trunk. Smaller and lighter models exist, but I prefer to overestimate my power needs rather than fall short. The medium-sized power station I gravitate toward most. When I take the Solix C2000 Gen 2 on a two-night camping trip, I use it to recharge two phones once a day, the portable projector I use for movie nights, and an electric kettle. If the menu plan calls for it, I'll even pack along the air fryer. I've never come close to running out of battery on the Solix C2000 Gen 2. I suspect I could easily stretch this power to work for a three-night trip. Speedy recharging given its capacity. With over 2,000Wh, the Solix C2000 Gen 2 offers impressive charging times of about 80 minutes with a standard wall AC adapter. Anker claims that connecting the unit to 800W of solar input will fully charge in about three hours if the panels are capable of pulling 100% power potential. It's also able to recharge with a gas generator, the car alternator, and a car's cigarette port. This versatility and speedy times are ideal for those who require quick turnaround between uses. Quiet enough for use at night. Despite its power output, the Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 remained quiet during testing. Anker states it gets to about 30 decibels when powering 1,000W. Our space heater pulled about 1,350W, and the noise level from the C2000 Gen 2 was barely noticeable. The fan gets louder during recharging, which is standard with almost all power stations. If desired, the Anker app allows you to choose a slower charging mode, which lowers fan noise. Best for camping The Bluetti AC180 is camping-friendly and off-grid friendly because it's portable at about 35 pounds and also capable of recharging with up to 500W of solar input in under three hours. In addition to numerous port options, it also features a wireless charging pad. - Ready for 500W solar input - 15W wireless charging pad - Expandable - Only one USB-C port - Physically larger than some competitors - Solar panels cost extra Solar power ready. Especially relevant when camping, the Bluetti AC180 is ready to recharge via up to 500W of solar panel power. After purchasing the solar panel, connect it to the station,and set the panel(s) in the sun during the day. Come back in about three hours to a fully charged Bluetti AC180. Connecting solar panels to the power station is as easy as plugging in a phone to recharge, and you can monitor the recharging percentage from the Bluetti app. It also supports dual recharging at the same time. When plugged into standard AC wall power and 500W of solar panels, the station can get a full charge in under two hours. The wireless charging pad is great for campsite hangs. Uniquely, the Bluetti AC180 features a wireless charging pad on top, freeing up the onboard USB-C port for recharging another device. Set your phone down when cooking dinner or telling campfire stories, and it'll recharge at 15W. Manageable in both weight and price. Clocking in at about 35 pounds, the Bluetti AC180 is fairly easy to carry around, and the side handles add to its portability. It's chunkier than a few of its competitors, but it's still a reasonable size given the battery capacity. If you're looking for a portable power station under $500, this Bluetti is one to consider. It's comparable in price to my top pick, the Jackery Explorer 1000 V2, but with slightly more battery and solar capacity and a wireless charging pad, though it's heavier and slower to recharge. Best heavy-duty Unique among portable power stations, the Goal Zero Yeti 1500 features water resistance, making it an ideal model for working in the yard, taking to the jobsite, or camping in wet weather. - IPX4 water resistance and built-in port shields - Stays cool during operation and recharging - Supports 900-watt solar input - Expensive - Loud fan - Proprietary cords Water-resistant exterior with port covers. Not many portable power stations can handle getting wet, which is one of the reasons we recommend the Goal Zero Yeti 1500 for those who need a rugged power station. It carries an IPX4 rating, indicating the device can withstand splashes or light rain. It's not suitable for use in a downpour or submerged in water. Goal Zero states, "Always keep the port doors fully closed when outdoors, and we strongly advise against operating live loads in rain, heavy moisture, or other wet conditions due to the risk of electrical shock." While you won't be able to set it in a mud puddle at the campground, it comes with the reassurance that a light drizzle won't deem it unusable. Efficient power for the worksite. When testing for the best portable power station, we measured the stated battery capacity against the actual battery capacity. The Goal Zero Yeti 1500 scored an impressive 91% efficiency, the most accurate stated power that we tested in this round. It ran a Vornado AVH10 space heater for about 62 minutes while pulling about 1,350W. High surge power and solar input. Goal Zero got serious about versatility and power with the Yeti 1500. It has four USB-C ports, one of which supports 140W for higher-powered devices like laptops, and four AC ports. Its 3,600W surge power makes it ideal for powering up heavier appliances. In addition, it can handle up to 900W of solar recharging. The best portable power stations, compared | Best For | Model | Capacity (Wh) | Output (W) | Actual Capacity | Efficiency | Recharge Time | Weight | Ports (AC / USB-C) | Solar Input | Expandable | | Best overall | Jackery Explorer 1000 V2 | 1,070Wh | 1,500W | 963Wh | 90% | 80 minutes | 23.8 lb | 3 / 2 | Yes | No | | Budget / small | Bluetti Elite 30 V2 | 288Wh | 600W | 249.7Wh | 87% | 110 minutes | 9.48 pounds | 2 / 1 | Yes | No | | Home backup | Anker Solix F3800 | 3,840Wh | 6,000W | 3,300Wh | 86% | 150 minutes | 132 lbs | 6+ / multiple | Yes | Yes | | Fastest recharging | Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 | 2,048Wh | 4,000W | 1,824Wh | 89% | 80 minutes | 41.6lbs | 5 / 3 | Yes | Yes | | Heavy duty | Goal Zero Yeti 1500 | 1,500Wh | ~2,000W | 1363.5Wh | 91% | 84 minutes | 52.lbs | 2–4 / limited | Yes | Yes | | Camping / solar | Bluetti AC180 | 1,150Wh | ~1,800W | 967.75Wh | 84% | 80 minutes | 35.3 lbs | 4 / 1–2 | Strong | Yes | What to Look for in a Portable Power Station Battery Capacity (Watt-Hours) Battery capacity, measured in watt-hours (Wh), tells you how much energy the power station can store. The higher the Wh number, the longer it can run your devices. As a rough estimate, divide the station’s usable watt-hours by the watts your device uses. A 1,000Wh station running a 100W device may last around 8 to 10 hours after efficiency losses. The price of portable power stations increases with Wh. Determining what you want to power with the station and how long you’d like it to last can help you choose the best portable power station for your needs. A small and lightweight portable power station, under 500Wh, is ideal for keeping small devices charged up, like a phone, tablet, or a side lamp. David Dodgen, an emergency preparedness expert and founder at AquaStorage, recommends power stations between 500Wh and 1,000Wh for short-term emergencies like power outages that last a handful of hours. Larger capacities are ideal for whole-home backup, off-grid living, or camping trips that span several days. Power Output (Watts) Each power station will list its overall capacity in Wh and its power output in Watts (W). Capacity tells you how long the battery lasts. Output indicates what it can power. A phone needs very little output, about 20W or less, while a microwave, space heater, fridge, or power tool needs much more. Some appliances also have a brief startup surge. That burst is called surge wattage. A power station may run a fridge once it’s on, but still fail if it can’t handle the fridge’s startup surge. Port Selection Matching your desired ports to the port selection on a power station is another major consideration. Smaller stations might only contain USB-A, USB-C, and a car port. Larger models incorporate AC outlets, and many stations over 2,000Wh include outlets for higher-power appliances like NEMA L14-30R AC outlets for dryers and NEMA 14-50 AC outlets, which are useful for RVs and charging EVs. Recharge Speed Nearly all come with versatile charging options, including standard wall AC recharging and solar panels. Some smaller models don’t have solar compatibility and instead use a USB-C, like your phone charger, or a car accessory socket to recharge. Despite its convenience, solar power is almost always slower than AC wall recharging. Some models come with a quick-recharging option found in the app, which can get the power station back to full juice quicker, but it’s not recommended for use with every recharge, as it can negatively impact the battery’s lifespan. If you’re looking for a portable power station for camping, solar recharging might be a priority. A fast-charging power station like the Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 might be more important if you’ll be using it in emergency situations. Portability Power stations can get heavy, so look for models that come with handles. If you plan to camp or travel with a power station, it should be easy to carry since you’ll load it from the house into the car and then to the campsite. Portable power stations for home backup can get not only heavy but also large. Models that reach 3,000Wh and beyond tend to come with wheels and a telescoping handle, similar to what you’d find on a suitcase. Keep weight and added portability in mind when buying, especially if you’ll need to carry the station up and down stairs or over distances. Solar Compatibility Opting for a portable power station that can function as a solar generator is a big advantage. Instead of requiring grid power, solar compatibility lets you recharge via solar panels whenever there’s sunlight. Alexis Abramson, dean at Columbia Climate School, also explains that using solar power to recharge produces zero direct emissions while functioning as a self-renewing energy system. “After purchase, sunlight is free — making it a low ongoing-cost solution,” she said. Each portable power station will come with a maximum solar input, listed in watts. The higher the solar input wattage, the quicker it’ll recharge the power station. “This matters enormously if you're relying on it daily or recovering after a cloudy stretch,” explained Abramson. Buying a portable power station bundled with a solar panel can sometimes be a cheaper option compared to buying the two separately. However, adding solar panels later is always an option. Noise Level Unlike standard gas generators, portable power stations are a quieter alternative. Many models can run a lamp, recharge a phone, or operate a CPAP machine while staying under about 30 decibels. The main noise source of a portable power station is its internal fan, which helps keep the unit cool. Power stations tend to get louder when recharging or operating at their surge output level. Expandability Expansion ability is helpful if you’re sure how much power you want or if you want to add more power and functionality down the line. Some larger models also allow you to connect to your home’s power system for backup during outages or to tap into an existing solar panel setup. What size power station do you need? One of the main criteria to consider before buying a portable power station is determining your power needs. These days, portable power stations can get quite compact, fitting into a backpack to keep phones charged up during a day at the beach. They can also weigh well over 100 pounds and come with wheels and a telescoping handle to roll around. Here’s a quick guide to help determine your power needs: | Capacity | What it can handle | Our pick: | | Under 500Wh (Small) | | Bluetti Elite 30 V2 | | 500–1,500Wh (Mid-size) | | Jackery Explorer 1000 V2 | | 1,500Wh+ | | Anker Solix C2000 Gen 2 | | 3,000 Wh+ (Large) | | Anker Solix F3800 | How We Tested Portable Power Stations I put each model through real-world testing to get a clearer picture of how it performs. James Brains also contributed to testing insights. Real-World Usage Testing To get a more accurate view of usability, I tested each portable power station as if we’d be using it during a camping trip or during a power outage. I recharged my phone, headphones, and laptop with each unit. I also ran a space heater and a fan, and powered the refrigerator with models powerful enough to handle those appliances. Battery Performance and Efficiency To test battery performance and calculate efficiency — how much of each power station’s listed capacity was actually available to power devices — I ran a 1500W space heater in conjunction with a Kill-A-Watt meter to get an accurate estimate of the battery's capacity. The space heater consistently pulled about 1350W throughout the testing. I then compared the actual battery capacity as measured by the Kill-A-Watt meter to the listed battery capacity provided by the brand. Since factors such as unit temperature, environmental temperature, and previous battery use can alter its efficiency, I repeated the test three times to get an average. It’s worth noting that I used a high-draw space heater to drain the battery quickly and for stress testing. In general, portable power stations, especially smaller models, aren’t well-suited for this use. Recharge Testing I ran each power station down to 0% battery and then timed its recharging time with standard AC power. I repeated this test three times to get an average, since the unit's temperature, as well as ambient temperature, affects recharging time. Many models support quick-charge mode, which is often activated in the app. That’s useful if a storm arrives unexpectedly or if you realize the station isn’t fully charged when packing for camping. Portability and design Before testing each power station, I noted any challenges with initial setup and app connectivity. I also carried each station around the house, up the stairs, and around the yard to get an accurate view of how portable each station feels. If the unit had wheels, I took it around on flat surfaces inside, on grass, and on loose gravel to note how it performed. I also took note of the on-board display and controls, making sure it felt user-friendly and easy to understand. Durability As I tested each portable power station, I observed its build quality, handle durability, and noted features that made it more appropriate for outdoor use. I considered elements such as rubber feet, wheels, telescoping handles, and protective shields for the ports. Noise and heat Batteries can get hot, so I monitored temperature via the app during my space heater test and during recharging. I also observed the noise level during operation and recharging, since the internal fan can get noisy. The Goal Zero Yeti 1500 was the only model that was notably louder than other models, but its internal temperature remained the coolest, which could be optimal if using outside in warmer weather. The expert behind the guide: Lauren Allain, contributor: I’ve been using portable power stations for several years and testing them for over a year. I take frequent camping trips and spend time at a cabin that tends to lose power for weeks in wind/rain storms and experiences rolling blackouts in extreme heat waves. I also pack a portable power station when I visit my parents' house, which has 1950s wiring, seemingly one outlet per room, and zero three-prong outlets in most rooms. When writing this guide for the best portable power stations, I consulted with three experts. Kristina Zagame, a Senior Home Energy Researcher at EnergySage; Alexis Abramson, dean at Columbia Climate School; and David Dodgen, an emergency preparedness expert and founder at AquaStorage. Portable power station FAQs What can a portable power station run and for how long? Runtime depends on both the size of the power station and the amount of power your device draws. As a rough estimate, divide the power station’s watt-hours by the device’s watts. Heat-producing appliances like space heaters, kettles, coffee makers, and hair dryers drain batteries much faster than phones, laptops, lamps, or routers. Smaller power stations are useful for recharging phones and laptops or running fans while larger capacity designs can power a refrigerator during emergencies, and some models are even designed to work as a whole-home backup. | Device | Typical power use | 300Wh power station | 1,000Wh power station | 2,000Wh power station | Notes | | Smartphone | 5W to 20W | 15 to 50 charges | 50 to 150 charges | 100+ charges | Best use case for small stations | | Laptop | 30W to 100W | 3 to 8 hours | 8 to 25 hours | 16 to 40 hours | Gaming/workstation laptops drain faster | | WiFi router | 10W to 20W | 12 to 24 hours | 40 to 80 hours | 80+ hours | Great for outage backup | | LED lamp | 5W to 15W | 16 to 48 hours | 50 to 150 hours | 100+ hours | Very efficient | | CPAP machine | 30W to 90W | 3 to 8 hours | 9 to 25 hours | 18 to 50 hours | Heated humidifiers use more power | | Box fan | 40W to 100W | 2.5 to 6 hours | 8 to 20 hours | 16 to 40 hours | Useful during summer outages | | Mini fridge | 50W to 150W | 2 to 5 hours | 7 to 18 hours | 14 to 36 hours | Runtime varies because fridges cycle on/off | | Full-size refrigerator | 300W to 800W | Not ideal | 2 to 8 hours | 5 to 16 hours | Startup surge matters | | Coffee maker | 600W to 1,200W | 10 to 25 minutes | 35 to 80 minutes | 1 to 2.5 hours | Short bursts only | | Microwave | 800W to 1,500W | 10 to 20 minutes | 30 to 70 minutes | 1 to 2 hours | Needs high output, not just capacity | | Space heater | 1,000W to 1,500W | 10 to 15 minutes | 35 to 60 minutes | 1 to 2 hours | Drains batteries very quickly; only use for extreme emergencies | | Window air conditioner | 400W to 1,500W | 10 to 15 minutes | 40 minutes to 2 hours | 1 to 4 hours | Runtime depends on BTU size, efficiency, thermostat setting, room temperature, and compressor cycling; only use for extreme emergencies | | Hair dryer | 1,000W to 1,800W | 8 to 15 minutes | 25 to 55 minutes | 50 to 100 minutes | Not an ideal power-station use | What should you not use a portable power station for? While we used a space heater to stress-test each battery, high-draw items like heaters, hair dryers, microwaves, kettles, and other heat-producing appliances are among the least efficient to run on a portable power station. They can drain even large models quickly. If you must use these items, do use for short periods, not continuously. How long do portable power stations last? No battery lasts forever. Over time, battery cells in a portable power station will become less efficient. Modern portable power stations are equipped with long-lasting lithium-iron phosphate battery cells. You’ll see this abbreviated to both LFP and LiFePO4. Power station manufacturers state how long each battery should last before it begins to deteriorate. Modern-day models with LiFePO4 battery technology can last for 3,000 to 4,000 cycles or more before they’ll only recharge to about 80% of their original capacity. One cycle is running the battery from 100% charged down to 0%. That’s over eight years of using one cycle per day. To get the longest lifespan out of a portable power station, check with the manufacturer for storage recommendations. When not in regular use, some brands recommend keeping the station charged at 100%, while others say something in a lower range is ideal. Are portable power stations worth it? Portable power stations can be well worth the investment for plenty of people. They’re useful for any off-grid situation, like camping or during power outages. They’re also useful when working away from grid power, like in a backyard or at a worksite. Portable power stations can keep phones and other communication devices charged up. Those who sleep with a CPAP machine or use other medical devices can find a portable power station a necessity during a power outage. Larger stations can also keep the refrigerator running, preventing food spoilage. With a large power station setup and solar panels, it’s possible to live off-grid entirely. Can you use a portable power station with solar panels? Most portable power stations are compatible with solar panels for recharging. Before buying, check the exact wattage a power station can accept and if it uses a standard connector or if you will need to purchase an adapter. The higher the solar input, the faster it’ll be to recharge. Be cautious not to go over the unit’s stated solar input. Doing so can harm the station. Abramson warns, “If your panel pushes too much voltage into it, you can permanently fry the device.” You can mix and match solar panel brands with portable power stations brands. For example, you could use an Anker solar panel to recharge an EcoFlow power station. But keep in mind solar panel ports vary by brand and you might need to purchase an adapter. Is a portable power station better than a generator? You might prefer a portable power station over a generator if noise is a concern. While generators tend to be loud, portable power stations can operate at levels under 30 decibels. You can also safely use portable power stations inside. They also produce fewer emissions. Abramson said, “A gas generator burns fossil fuels, releasing CO2 into the environment, contributing to climate change. Gas generators also can emit carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, and unburned hydrocarbons, which can also be concerning.” Zagame also points out that generators need regular maintenance and rely on fuel sources that might not be available in an emergency. Portable power paired with solar recharging could be a more reliable option during an emergency. Portable power stations come with their own requirements, though, and you’ll want to keep them dry and away from damp conditions. It’s also important to give a power station clearance near the fans to ensure they’re able to keep the battery as cool as possible. Always use a power station within the manufacturer's listed wattage limit and check on storage recommendations. Our story to portable generators versus power stations compares the use cases of both.