Microsoft Chief Executive Satya Nadella proclaimed a “new paradigm” on Tuesday in a keynote at the company’s Build conference in San Francisco. He was talking about the advent of agentic AI, but for anyone who has followed Nadella’s company closely in recent years, he could have just as easily been talking about Microsoft. After taking an early lead in the AI race by forging a close alliance with ChatGPT-maker OpenAI beginning in 2019, Microsoft, and OpenAI, are both now playing catch-up in a heated field of rivals that include Google, Anthropic, Meta, and even SpaceX. As Nadella kicked off the company’s conference on Tuesday, the CEO delivered a message designed to show the strength and breadth of Microsoft’s AI initiatives, and to re-ignite some of the buzz the company had at the onset of the AI revolution just a few years ago. Even the choice to hold the Build event in San Francisco for the first time since 2016 seemed designed to send a message. If there was one unifying theme to the sweep of product announcements and partnerships made by company executives, it’s that Microsoft’s portfolio of technology—from AI models to devices to chips—anchors it at the center of the AI industry. “It’s a new paradigm,” Nadella said of the agentic era. Agents “reason continuously. They generate and run code dynamically. They take actions across files and devices, as well as across the network.” Nadella announced “Project Solara,” which the company pitched as a purpose-built agentic platform for devices that could include a desktop device and badge that people may wear to interact with their agents. The company also revealed a new family of home-grown AI models, including a fresh image model, coding model, and its first reasoning model. Nadella also brought Peter Steinberger, the founder of open-source agent tool OpenClaw, on stage to announce that the trendy personal AI assistant will be integrated into Windows. In addition, Nvidia Chief Executive Jensen Huang joined virtually as Nadella detailed major upgrades to custom infrastructure that is optimized for AI workloads and discussed Nvidia’s recently announced PC “superchip” that will pair with Windows. Nadella said that Microsoft will be unveiling a Copilot super app this summer that will combine chat, coding, and a function named Autopilot. Fortune on Friday first reported on the super app, a project that will also include Copilot Cowork and is led by Copilot chief Jacob Andreou. Autopilot is designed to connect to an agent named Scout, the first of a new category of agents that Nadella said will be able to join group chats in Microsoft Teams or handle email threads in Outlook. Microsoft faces immense pressure to prove it is still relevant in an ultra-competitive AI world with many rivals. It’s clashing with Amazon over chips and infrastructure (and for business with OpenAI and Anthropic), while jockeying with the top AI labs for model supremacy. Data center capacity constraints, over-reliance on OpenAI and a Copilot assistant that trails rivals have challenged Microsoft’s early lead. Microsoft is aggressively fortifying its weak spots. It has more recently given greater priority to train Copilot on its servers, is deploying homegrown chips, and has a new deal with OpenAI that provides it and its longtime partner greater flexibility to compete. Nadella in his keynote said Microsoft, and the technology industry, are transitioning from a cloud-native era to an “agent-native stack” he explained as agents executing tasks in both software and hardware environments. “There are really two stories people can tell about this moment,” he said. “One is that technology concentrates power, reduces human agency, and leaves the society to absorb the consequences. The other is that we use this next wave to unlock opportunity for developers, scientists, enterprises, and every community. Our job is to make the second story true.”