All new bombshells enter the villa in the latest season of Love Island USA. We've rounded up everything you need to know about the eighth season of the hit reality series, including where to watch Love Island USA, cast members, and a look at the trailer. The series will once again land on Peacock in the US, but the streaming options will look a little bit different in Canada this year. We'll break down all the details and highlight what you need to know about streaming the show in other countries. Where to watch Love Island USA in the US New episodes of Love Island USA drop on Peacock in the United States, starting on June 2. For the premiere week, new episodes will air every day except Saturday. After that, new episodes will drop daily except Wednesdays (with Aftersun dropping on Saturdays). Peacock Premium subscriptions cost $11 a month, but you can upgrade to ad-free with Peacock Premium Plus for $17 a month. Peacock only hosts Seasons 4-8, and you'll need a subscription to Paramount Plus (starting at $9 a month) to watch Seasons 1-3. Peacock is a convenient streaming source for hit NBC TV shows, Universal movies, and select sports like Sunday Night Football. The service also carries its own slate of original programming. Where to watch Love Island USA in Canada Love Island USA used to drop new episodes for free on CTV, but Bell Media has phased out the app, so you'll need a Crave account to watch the latest season. Crave subscriptions start at $12 a month for a Standard with Ads plan. Where to watch Love Island USA in the UK ITVX is the streaming home of Love Island USA in the UK, but it usually takes several months for the latest season to land overseas. ITVX, a free streaming service that just requires account creation to use, is the home of the original Love Island series (Love Island UK), which is currently dropping its latest season. How to watch Love Island USA from anywhere Fans traveling away from home can still access their usual streaming options with the help of a VPN. Short for virtual private networks, VPNs are handy cybersecurity tools that let people temporarily change the virtual location on their electronic devices, so that their favorite websites and apps work just like they would back home. The paid options we've recommended require country-specific methods of payment, so this option will work best for those who are just traveling abroad at the moment. NordVPN is one of the best VPNs we've tested. It's a user-friendly option with a massive selection of servers. Plus, it has a 30-day money-back guarantee. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. Love Island USA Season 8 cast - Aniya Harvey (Tyrone, Georgia), 23 - Beatriz Hatz (San Diego, California), 25 - Bryce Dettloff (Los Angeles, California), 29 - Gabriel Vasconcelos (Miami, Florida), 26 - KC Chandler (Fresno, California), 23 - Kenzie Annis (Kennesaw, Georgia), 24 - Melanie Moreno (Los Angeles, California), 24 - Sean Reifel (Easton, Pennsylvania), 29 - Sincere Rhea (Cape May, New Jersey), 25 - Trinity Tatum (Newport News, Virginia), 22 - Vasana Montgomery (Beaverton, OR), 25 - Zach Georgiou (Birmingham, UK), 26 What time do Love Island USA episodes premiere on Peacock? New Love Island USA episodes drop on Peacock at 9 p.m. ET, or 6 p.m. PT. New episodes should drop at around the same time on Crave in Canada. Love Island USA Season 8 trailer Peacock released an official "Meet the Islanders" video at the end of May, where fans got a first look at the newest contestants to enter the villa. Check out the trailer below: Note: VPN use is illegal in certain countries, and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content may constitute a breach of the terms of use for some services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.