Summer's right around the corner, which means it's almost time for beachside cocktails and rooftop happy hours. To help you decide what to order, Business Insider asked bartenders and mixologists which drinks they expect to be everywhere this summer. Here's what they said. Gimlets will be a popular choice this summer. Sanwar Mal Khokhar — mixologist and beverage program leader at Sanjh Restaurant and Bar in Texas — expects to see the classic gimlet everywhere this season. Made with just a few simple ingredients like gin, lime juice, and simple syrup, these cocktails are refreshing and easy to make at home. "We'll see cucumber gimlets, especially, since cucumbers are in season during the summer months," he told BI. Passion-fruit margaritas are the perfect warm-weather drink. Carlos Hugo Meza, beverage director at Denver-based restaurant BearLeek, said the "light and sessionable" passion-fruit margarita will likely be a popular cocktail this summer. "A passion-fruit margarita is one of those drinks that people can enjoy year-round, but especially on a hot day," he told BI. Palomas will remain a summertime favorite. Khokhar predicts palomas will continue to be trendy this season, particularly among those who crave a light and refreshing cocktail. Made with tequila, grapefruit soda, and lime juice, palomas are a great alternative for those who find margaritas too sweet. Spritzes of all kinds are here to stay. Linda Douglas, a bartender at Donna's in Los Angeles and a contributor to Phillips Distilling Co.'s cocktail trend report, "Cocktailmanac," told BI that spritzes will continue to dominate this summer. She said some bartenders call spritzes the "supermodels" of the cocktail world because as soon as someone sees one, they want one, especially in the summer months. "The Hugo Spritz, in particular, looks light, refreshing, and effervescent. It's a great profile to introduce new flavors, like elderflower, or local herbs, to people, too," she said. The lychee martini is ideal for warm weather. A lychee martini has a sweet, floral, and subtly tropical taste. It's made by combining vodka or gin, lychee juice or liqueur, and fresh lemon or lime juice. Douglas expects these cocktails to become bar favorites as more people look to recreate tropical, vacation-like vibes without hopping on a plane or going on a full-blown vacation. A Diet Coke with a shot will be the budget-friendly drink of the summer. Douglas expects to see a crisp Diet Coke with a shot of vanilla vodka or reposado surge in popularity this year as an accessible, affordable summer drink. "Die-hard Diet Coke drinkers love this one because any bar or restaurant can make this cocktail, and it's comfortable and foolproof. It's universal and reliable," she told BI. This summer, we'll see a twist on the popular vodka-lemonade. Vodka lemonades are refreshing bar staples, especially during peak summer months when it's hot outside. With strawberries in season as we head into the summer, Meza expects to see fun twists on this classic drink soar in popularity. "With kitchens already utilizing strawberries, it's easy to take those ingredients and put together a simple, cost-effective vodka strawberry lemonade for a light and refreshing option this summer," he told BI.