As an interior decorator, I love finding unique pieces that create a cohesive feel in a space. However, due to personal taste and durability concerns, there are some items I wouldn't personally include in my own home. Here they are. Cheap throw pillows don't typically last the test of time. Throw pillows are arguably some of the most-used items in living spaces, and are crucial to creating a cohesive design. However, a cheaply made pillow without a removable cover will get gross quickly. After all, you probably wouldn't go six months without washing your bedsheets. That's why I always choose throw pillows with washable, removable covers. High-quality pillow inserts can be an investment, but they make it easy to swap things out as your taste changes. Faux-leather upholstery isn't as durable as it may seem. Though vegan alternatives can be great, from what I've seen, faux leather is not a durable alternative to its genuine counterpart. Faux leather is made with plastics and may be resistant to cracks and scratches, but over time, it'll start to deteriorate. Unlike the real thing, faux leather also won't stretch and soften, so, in my opinion, it's not particularly comfortable or durable. If you love the look of leather and want to be cruelty-free, I suggest accenting your space with the faux stuff instead. Soft-sided organizer cubes should be left in college dorms. Although soft-sided organizers are a popular choice among college students, I think they should stay in freshman dorm rooms. Instead, I like to invest in beautiful storage solutions that enhance my space. Plus, a cute sideboard or thrifted cabinet will look better —and last longer — than pop-up cardboard-and-cloth boxes. Desk chairs with plastic wheels can damage your floors. Most affordable office chairs I've seen have plastic wheels. However, these can easily ruin beautiful hardwood floors. That's why I've replaced the plastic wheels in my home with rubber versions. They're easy to swap out and aren't too expensive. Exposed lighting fixtures are harsh on the eyes. Exposed bulbs can be nice when used in spaces with farmhouse, industrial, and minimalist designs. However, when used in the wrong home, they can become an eyesore. Plus, they usually showcase the bulb rather than the fixture, which I don't personally love. These fixtures also limit the kind of bulbs you can use, and with smart lighting on the rise, I think it's best to stick to fixtures that hide the hardware and highlight good design. Themed decor does not express sophisticated design. Unless you actually have a beach house, mountain cabin, or farmhouse, I always tell clients to resist themed decor. And when it comes to my own home, I do the same. Unimaginative decor like starfish lamps and rooster clocks might seem charming, but they aren't the most sophisticated choices. Often, these pieces appear overstimulating, impersonal, and mass-produced. In my opinion, good design whispers; themed decor shouts. Geometric shelves tend to be clutter collectors. Geometric wall shelves are a popular choice in mainstream design. However, I find people often rely on them as an easy way to fill a blank wall without planning for what will occupy those shelves. In my home, however, I like to take a more personal approach to decor. For example, artwork or large framed photos look better and create less clutter than shelves with dust-collecting trinkets. This story was originally published on March 19, 2023, and most recently updated on June 3, 2026.