Move over men. Women are making major moves in the housing market, and many are doing it solo. Single women now account for roughly one in five U.S. homebuyers, more than double the share of single men. As their presence in the market grows, they’re not only reshaping the demographics of who buys homes but reshaping the market itself with what types of homes they are looking for and the services they need to support their needs. Women continue to buy homes regardless of the obstacles Despite the ongoing ups and downs of the housing market, including economic cycles and affordability obstacles including post-pandemic high interest rates, low inventory, and soaring prices, women – particularly Millennials – have continued to show resiliency. One of the most striking new developments? Among first-time buyers, single women now earn a median income of $73,000, surpassing single men (at $66,400) for the first time ever, reflecting women’s rising earning power and educational achievement. Outside of income, there are additional demographic considerations driving these trends within the segment of single female homeowners. According to NAR’s 2025 Profile of Home Buyers and Sellers,71% of single female buyers have purchased a home before, indicating repeat buyers. Younger women, particularly Gen Z, now represent 30% of all single female buyers – the highest generational share on record. Still, even more younger women want to buy homes, but affordability remains a roadblock. Many younger millennials and Gen Zers want to purchase a home but can’t afford it right now due to economic obstacles. When faced with some of these rising economic pressures and determining how much home you can afford, it’s important to consider not just the sticker price of the home, but the total cost of homeownership – including closing costs, taxes, and ongoing maintenance and upkeep. According to a 2025 American Home Shield survey, the first year of homeownership can cost $86,698 when factoring in down payment, furnishing, renovations and tools purchased. Notably, 56% of homeowners had no budget for repairs that often arise in the first year. Hidden homeownership costs reach an average of $21,400 annually, with maintenance alone averaging $8,808 per year – often taking first-time buyers by surprise. So why are more single women buying homes and what is motivating them? Despite these obstacles, single women are determined to achieve their goal of homeownership and continue to be a driving force in the market. For many, it’s about building equity and long-term financial stability. Data shows 41% of single women buyers made financial sacrifices to save enough to buy a house, including cutting back on non-essential goods, entertainment and even taking on second jobs. Single women tend to be more deliberate in their homebuying decisions. According to the 2025 NextGen Homebuyer Report, women use real estate platforms like Redfin and Zillow more frequently (65% vs. 58% for men) and are more likely to first consult professional advisors (67% vs. 58% for men). When selecting their home, they also tend to be more price-conscious and heavy researchers over their male counterparts. Most women buying homes want stand-alone properties – 63% opt for detached single-family homes – though homeownership patterns show they are increasingly choosing a variety of property types that best align with their maintenance comfort levels and long-term goals. For many, proximity to family and friends remains a top factor when picking a neighborhood, and they’re willing to compromise other factors for that sense of community. Overall, single women demonstrate the primary motivator of their purchasing decision is the desire to own a house, and they’re willing to make financial sacrifices to do it. How can we continue to move the needle when it comes to changing homeownership demographics? The data shows single women are driving and changing the U.S. housing market, but there are still things we can do to continue to drive the needle. We can also work to tackle the total cost of homeownership and address concerns some women may have about overall maintenance and home upkeep. According to American Home Shield’s 2025 survey data, nearly half of homeowners (42%) cite maintenance and hidden costs as their primary source of regret about homeownership. For many single women, the challenge is not just paying for repairs — it’s figuring out who to trust, whether the recommended work is necessary, and whether they’re being charged fairly. A home warranty can help reduce that uncertainty by connecting homeowners with qualified contractors. So, instead of scrambling to compare quotes or second-guess repair recommendations, homeowners have a more predictable process when something breaks. Beyond convenience, home warranties can provide budget protection and greater peace of mind when unexpected repairs arise. If there’s one thing that’s a certainty, it’s that change is constant, and the housing market is no exception. But today’s housing market isn’t just evolving; women are driving it. The opinions expressed in Fortune.com commentary pieces are solely the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions and beliefs of Fortune.