Francesco Mattana grew up eating freshly caught fish and locally grown produce by the beach. The Italian chef was raised on the slow-paced Italian island of Sardinia, where his grandparents were fishermen and farmers. His family had access to the freshest ingredients, and his mamma and nonna were on hand to cook him up a fresh pasta or hearty stew. This is how he learned the lessons of the Mediterranean diet, the famously healthy eating pattern of countries in this region, which has been linked to a host of health benefits, from a lower risk of type two diabetes and early death to better gut health. Now, Mattana is sharing those lessons in his new cookbook, "Eat Like A Sardinian: Live to 100." The title is a nod to Sardinia's high population of healthy older people, earning it "Blue Zone" status. "Sardinian food is fresh, seasonal, and full of variety," Mattana writes. He shared three nutritious recipes from his cookbook. Live to 100 minestrone soup Serves 4 Ingredients: - 100g (3 1/2oz) dried borlotti (cranberry) beans - 100g (3 1/2oz) dried chickpeas (garbanzo beans) - 1 white onion, roughly diced - 2 celery sticks, chopped into 1cm (1/2 inch) cubes - 1 large carrot, peeled and chopped into 1cm(1/2 inch) cubes - 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, plus extra for drizzling - 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped - 3 sun-dried tomatoes, finely chopped - 15g (1/2oz) basil - 15g (1/2oz) parsley, finely chopped - 3 large tomatoes, roughly chopped (or halved if using small tomatoes) - 1 large potato, peeled and chopped into 2cm (3/4 inch) cubes - 4 large Savoy cabbage leaves, tough stalks removed and roughly chopped - 40g (1 1/2oz) pecorino, grated - Fine sea salt - Freshly ground black pepper Method: - The night before, wash the beans and chickpeas in cold water. - Place them in a large bowl and cover them with fresh cold water. They will expand as they soak, so make sure the container is large enough, and there is plenty of water. Cover the bowl and leave them to soak for at least 12 hours (or longer—check the packet). - The next day, drain and then rinse the beans and chickpeas thoroughly with freshwater. Set aside. - Place a large casserole dish (Dutch oven) or ceramic pan over a medium heat. - Add the onion, celery, carrots, and olive oil and cook for 8—10 minutes, stirring occasionally. - Now add the garlic and sun-dried tomatoes, and cook for a further 2 minutes. - Tear the basil leaves and stir them in along with the chopped parsley, and cook for another minute. - Next, add the tomatoes and potato, give everything a stir, and cook for a further 2 minutes, or until the tomatoes are starting to soften. - Add the drained beans and chickpeas and a good pinch of salt and pepper. Cover with water and bring it to the boil. - Once boiling, reduce the heat back to medium, cover, and cook for 1—1 1/2 hours, or until the beans and chickpeas are soft. If needed, top up with water so that the vegetables are always submerged. - Once the beans and chickpeas are cooked, add the cabbage, cover, and cook for a final 10 minutes. Taste and adjust the seasoning before serving. - To serve, use a slotted ladle to divide the vegetables, beans, and chickpeas equally between serving bowls, then pour over the warm broth. Sprinkle with cheese and drizzle over some olive oil. Roast chicken with rosemary potatoes Serves 4-6 Ingredients: For the chicken - 4 chicken drumsticks - 4 chicken thighs - 2 sprigs of rosemary, leaves finely chopped - 2 fresh bay leaves, stalks stripped and leaves finely chopped - 2 large white onions, chopped into thick petals - 100ml (scant 1/2 cup)Vermentino or a dry white wine like Sauvignon Blanc - Extra virgin olive oil - Fine sea salt - Freshly ground black pepper For the potatoes - 1.2kg (2lb 10oz) potatoes, peeled and chopped into 3cm (1 1/4 inch) cubes - 6 garlic cloves, roughly crushed - 1 large sprig of rosemary leaves, finely chopped - 1 teaspoon oregano - Extra virgin olive oil Method: - First, marinate the chicken. Put all the ingredients into a large bowl along with a generous pinch of salt and pepper. Using your hands, give it a good stir, then cover and set aside to marinate for at least 2 hours or, even better, overnight in the refrigerator. - Preheat the oven to 200°C fan/425°F. - Put all the ingredients for the potatoes into a large bowl, drizzle with oil, and season with salt and pepper. Stir well to coat the potatoes in the seasonings. - Line a large baking tray (pan) with baking parchment. Pour in the seasoned potatoes, making sure they don't overlap, and roast in the oven for 15 minutes. - While the potatoes are cooking, discard any liquid from the marinated chicken, add a generous glug of olive oil, season with salt, and give it a good stir. - Arrange the chicken and onions in the tray by nestling the chicken in between the potatoes and tucking the onions under each chicken piece. Make sure the chicken and the potatoes are not overlapping, so that they will color evenly. - Place the tray back in the oven and roast for 40—45 minutes, or until the chicken and the potatoes are golden and fully cooked. Serve nice and hot. Tuna steaks in tomato sauce Serves 2 Ingredients: - 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil - 3 anchovy fillets, finely chopped - 2 x 120g (4 1/2oz) tuna steaks - 1 banana shallot, finely chopped - 1 garlic clove, thinly sliced - 1/2 red chilli, thinly sliced - 300g (10 1/2oz) baby plum tomatoes or cherry tomatoes, halved - 100ml (scant 1/2 cup) Vermentino or a dry white wine like Sauvignon Blanc - 5g (1/4oz) parsley, finely chopped, plus 1 sprig for garnish - 10 Taggiasca olives, pitted - Fine sea salt - Freshly ground black pepper Method: - Heat half the oil in a medium frying pan over a medium heat. - Add the anchovies and cook for one minute, then add the tuna steaks and cook for one minute on each side. Remove them from the pan and set aside on a plate. - Add the remaining oil, the shallot, garlic, and chilli to the pan. Cook for three minutes, stirring constantly, before adding the tomatoes and wine (if you prefer not to use wine, use water instead and add the juice from 1/4 lemon just before serving). - Cover and cook for 10 minutes, piercing half the tomatoes with a fork halfway through cooking so that they release their juices. - Taste and lightly season the sauce with salt and pepper as needed, then stir in the chopped parsley and olives. - Place the tuna on top, cover again, and cook for one minute so it is still pink in the middle. - Serve garnished with a few parsley leaves. Tuna steaks can become dry if left too long after cooking, so enjoy them straight away.