June has officially arrived, which means summer shows are starting back up, along with some fun films. We've rounded up the best TV premieres, finales, and movie streaming debuts you can watch the weekend of June 5, 2026. This week, "Hoppers" finally lands on streaming after its theatrical run. "Office Romance" and "Lorne" have also premiered, if you're looking for other new movies in the romcom or documentary sphere. "Love Island USA" is back for a new season, but our top recommendations this week go to the premieres of "The Vampire Lestat" and "Cape Fear." 6: Hoppers If you're looking for something that the whole family can enjoy, "Hoppers" is the way to go this weekend. The animated movie is Pixar's latest, following a college student who puts her mind into a beaver to interact with and understand animals. Piper Curda, Bobby Moynihan, Jon Hamm, Kathy Najimy, and Dave Franco lend their voices to the film. "Hoppers" is now streaming on Disney Plus. 5: Love Island USA A new cohort of bombshells enters the villa in the latest season of "Love Island USA." The reality romance series is in its eighth season after its jump in popularity over the past few years. If you can't get enough, the series that started it all ("Love Island UK") is also dropping its newest season across the pond. New episodes of "Love Island USA" stream almost daily on Peacock. 4: Office Romance Following "Marry Me" and "Shotgun Wedding," Jennifer Lopez's recent romcom revival continues with "Office Romance." The film is cowritten by "Ted Lasso" star Brett Goldstein, who stars alongside JLo as the work flirt whom she falls for. The pair develop feelings for each other while working at Lopez's (character's) airline company, where they must keep their office romance undercover. The movie is now streaming on Netflix. 3: Lorne If you've ever wondered about the man behind the "Saturday Night Live" machine (and you're looking for something more in-depth than the "Saturday Night" movie that dropped a couple of years ago), then "Lorne" has you covered. The documentary is a deep look into Lorne Michaels, bolstered by interviews from "SNL" mainstays like Tina Fey, Kristen Wiig, John Mulaney, Conan O'Brien, Chris Rock, and others. The film is now streaming on Peacock. 2: The Vampire Lestat The TV adaptation of "Interview with the Vampire" is back with a new season — and a new name. The third installment in Anne Rice's iconic story finds the titular vampire (Sam Reid) on tour as a rock star following the publication of Daniel Molloy's (Eric Bogosian) book about him. "The Vampire Lestat" airs on AMC on Sundays, starting June 7. Cord-cutters can live stream new episodes through services like AMC Plus, AMC Plus via Prime Video, Philo, DirecTV MyEntertainment, and Sling TV Blue or Orange. 1: Cape Fear Apple TV continues its hot streak with "Cape Fear," the pulpy TV reimagining of the '90s film of the same name (a remake of a '60s film, based on a '50s novel — so there are layers to it). The limited series stars Amy Adams and Patrick Wilson as married lawyers who are forced to reckon with their past when a man (Javier Bardem) that they helped put away in prison is released and hell-bent on terrorizing them. Notably, Martin Scorsese and Steven Spielberg are executive producers on the thriller series. New episodes drop on Fridays globally (Thursday nights in the US) on Apple TV. Also streaming: Each week, we highlight the best TV show premieres, finales, and new-to-streaming movies (along with stand-up comedy specials, when something sparks our interest). However, there are also several ongoing series that are currently dropping excellent new episodes. You can find some of our top recommendations below. - "Dutton Ranch" (new episodes Fridays on Paramount Plus) - "Widow's Bay" (new episodes Wednesdays on Apple TV) - "Criminal Minds: Evolution" (new episodes Thursdays on Paramount Plus) - "RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars" Season 11 (new episodes Fridays on Paramount Plus) - "Star City" (new episodes on Fridays on Apple TV) If you're interested in learning more about these streaming apps, check out our guides to the best streaming services and best live TV streaming services. For additional recommendations, you can explore our roundup of the best streaming deals and bundles. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.