As a New Yorker who's rented several cramped apartments over the years, tiny homes inspire me. Making the most of a minimal square footage requires some creativity. I often book fun-sized accommodations when I travel, hoping to discover new space-saving hacks to make the most of my own little dwelling. From Florida, Maryland, and Tennessee to Canada, Austria, and Switzerland, I've stayed in several tiny Airbnbs around the world. None of those homes utilized indoor space as efficiently as this tiny home hotel in Germany, which I found on Airbnb back in 2022. I was looking for tiny stays in Germany when I found one with a unique, cylindrical shape that packed a lot inside, so I booked it for two nights for $140. The Airbnb was part of a tiny home hotel in Neustrelitz, Germany, called Slube. The company designs minimal concrete "Slubes" for up to two people. There are three types of Slubes: a one-story Basic, a two-story Home, and a Tower, which is two stories with a rooftop terrace. I booked a Home Slube. It was less than half the size of any tiny home I'd stayed in before. The 16-foot-tall Slube with two floors was 106 square feet. Prior to this stay, the tiniest home I'd ever booked was 250 square feet. There was no physical key to my room. I checked in with a code sent to my phone. When I arrived by train from the airport in Berlin, I didn't see any employees at the tiny home hotel. At first, I was confused, but then I checked my email. A message from Slube informed me I'd be staying in room five and could check in by myself. Inside, the 53-square-foot bottom level had a bathroom on the right, a sitting area on the left, and a ladder to the second floor. The sitting area had a foldout table that I could push against the wall to save space. Across from a foldout table was a bench with two seat cushions in lieu of a couch. I stored my luggage beneath the bench. This tiny home utilized more vertical space than those I've seen in the US. There were hooks and storage cubbies above the bench, so I stored all my clothing and toiletries on the first floor. I was impressed by the amenities packed into such a small room. In the back right corner of the sitting area, there was a nook with built-in shelves that housed a small coffee machine, a hair dryer, and a few dishes. The bathroom had an efficient layout. There was a curtain separating the showerhead and sink from the toilet and storage space. Even with two windows, I felt I had enough privacy. The first-floor windows had a film covering most of the glass, letting in natural light without sacrificing privacy. After checking out the first level, I headed up the ladder to the second-floor bedroom. I thought it was easy to climb, but it could be challenging for some. There was a latched gate at the top of the ladder, which I imagine was installed to prevent people from falling. Knowing I was securely fastened into the bed area made sleeping easier. The bedroom was the same size as the living space and bathroom combined — 53 square feet. The floor space was covered by a comfy, full-size bed. The pillows had the ideal ratio of fluff to firmness for my neck and head. Above the bed was a mounted TV equipped with Netflix and other streaming services. Before bed, I watched some of my favorite shows on Netflix. I used the lower platform on the far side of the bed as a nightstand. It had easily accessible outlets, a pocket for the TV remote, and more space for my electronics and water bottle. Above the bed, a large window opened so I could let the breeze into my room. It had a blackout curtain for privacy and blocking early morning light. The Slube also had smart electricity that made my stay feel a tad luxurious. I controlled the lights and temperature of each story from my phone. I found it fascinating that this tiny home truly left no space unused, from the loft bed to the wall cubbies. I can't stick a second story into my own rental, but the European tiny home still gave me inspiration for how I could make better use of my space, starting with vertical storage hacks.