Decorating your home is one thing, but designing an outdoor space comes with its own set of challenges. To find out what's trending, Business Insider spoke with designers, gardeners, and landscaping experts about the backyard features they're embracing and the ones they're leaving behind this year. Here's what they said. Outdoor lighting is having a moment. Colleen Bennett, founder and principal designer of CBB Design Firm, said outdoor lighting has come a long way in recent years. "You're seeing outdoor lighting that is just adaptive and sexier than what we had before," Bennett told BI. Rather than relying solely on string lights, people are starting to use a mix of fixtures such as outdoor chandeliers, rechargeable lamps, and dimmable lanterns to create different moods throughout their outdoor spaces. Pavilions and pergolas are becoming backyard staples. Dave Marciniak, owner and lead designer of Revolutionary Gardens, said making an outdoor space more comfortable and functional is top of mind for many as we head into summer. "Homeowners have really been looking for garden structures that both define the space and provide a sense of enclosure and a bit more utility," Marciniak told BI. Pergolas and pavilions are especially popular structures, he said. They can provide shade and shelter, allowing people to enjoy their yards without being limited by the weather. Native and edible plants may also be on the rise. According to Jacob Romkee, owner of Vintage Lawn Service and a member of Thumbtack's Pro Advisory Board, people are becoming more thoughtful about the plants they incorporate into their landscapes. Native plants, for instance, are gaining popularity as homeowners seek species better suited to their local climate and that require less maintenance. Many are also incorporating herbs and edible plants into ornamental landscaping rather than confining them to separate garden beds, Marciniak added. These can be functional while also enhancing a yard's visual appeal. Maximalism is making its way into the backyard. Benji Lewis, a UK-based interior designer, said bolder patterns and colors are becoming more popular in outdoor spaces. "The maximalist trend that was big here a few years ago for interiors is big in gardens now," he said. Maximalist designs typically utilize a less-is-more approach with lots of vibrant colors and patterns, from large-scale florals to tropical prints. In an outdoor space, this can extend to rugs, pillows, chair cushions, and even artwork. Outdoor spaces are becoming a true extension of the indoors. Several designers BI spoke with said patios are becoming more inviting as people bring indoor design trends outside "People are using patios more like second living rooms," Tyka Pryde, an interior designer and furniture designer, told BI. It's becoming more common to have items usually reserved for indoor spaces — like TVs, rugs, and media consoles — outside. Bennett said people are also embracing warmer tones, layered furnishings, and more comfortable pieces that make outdoor spaces feel like an extension of the home. On the other hand, one-note expanses of grass are falling out of favor. Plain, expansive lawns can feel a bit dated compared to more layered landscape designs. So, homeowners are adding more visual interest to exterior spaces instead of just having a "big carpet of lawn" and a few plants near the house, Marciniak said. For example, plant beds can help outdoor spaces feel more intentional and connected to the home. Romkee said clover and creeping thyme are also becoming popular lawn alternatives because they are "pretty" but require less maintenance than a wide expanse of grass. One-size-fits-all patios are out. Many people are replacing single gathering areas with "outdoor rooms" or dedicated zones for different activities such as cooking, dining, and seating, Marciniak said. Dividing an outdoor space in functional ways using planters, unique pavers, and landscaping designs can also help elevate how it's enjoyed. "There's a little bit of almost an experience of going from one space to another in sequence," the designer told BI. Plastic outdoor furniture is being replaced with investment-worthy pieces. As outdoor spaces become more integrated into daily life, many people are moving away from inexpensive plastic furniture and turning toward pieces made with durable materials, according to Pryde. "We're seeing a lot of teak and wood furniture and just more high-quality furniture," she told BI. Although these pieces can be more expensive upfront, they are usually designed to last through many seasons. Matchy-matchy patio sets are out. Pryde told BI that she's seeing a shift away from "matchy-matchy" coordinated outdoor furniture sets, which have been the norm for a long time. Instead, she said, homeowners are mixing materials, finishes, and furnishings from different sources to create a more "curated" outdoor space. This adds a lot more visual interest to a space.