Taylor Swift has a lot of hit singles, eras, and famous friendships. Famously, throughout the mid-2010s, Swift had a "squad" of friends who she featured in her music videos, brought out at concerts, and even partied with. Over the years, Swift has kept close ties to many of these connections but hasn't publicly interacted with others. Here's a look at some of the singer's most famous friendships over the years. Karlie Kloss was once considered Swift's best friend. In the early 2010s, Karlie Kloss was famously considered to be Swift's best friend. At the time they met, Kloss was a new model on the scene, and she and Swift solidified their new friendship with a well-documented road trip to Big Sur in 2014. They were photographed together often, especially in New York City. Kloss and Swift haven't been photographed together in years. For years, the pair publicly supported each other at events and in social media posts. Kloss was even in Swift's "Bad Blood" music video. As their public outings and support slowed around 2016, fans began to wonder if the two were still friends. The last photo shared of the two was a selfie from backstage at the Reputation tour, nearly a decade ago. In 2018, Kloss said she was still close with Swift during an interview with The New York Times. Swift did not attend Kloss's wedding to Jared Kushner that same year. In 2019, the model was spotted vacationing with Scooter Braun amid Swift's feud with the music manager, which further fueled speculation of a falling out. Neither Swift nor Kloss has publicly shared what (if anything) happened to their friendship. However, fans have theorized that Swift's song "It's Time to Go" — a song about betrayal and knowing when to walk away — is about Kloss. In 2023, the model was spotted in the stands at Swift's Eras Tour in Los Angeles. Notably, she was not sitting in the VIP tent where celebrities often watch the singer's concerts. In 2025, Kloss liked Swift's Instagram post about her engagement to Travis Kelce. Swift and Cara Delevingne seemingly met at the 2013 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. Cara Delevingne and Swift seemed to link up after the 2013 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, where Swift performed and Delevingne modeled. Soon after, the two were spotted hanging out in New York City. Delevingne is also one of Swift's friends who appeared in the "Bad Blood" music video. Delevingne and Swift still seem to be friends. In 2019, Delevingne seemingly made it clear the pair are still cool by posting on Instagram to congratulate Swift on the release of her latest album, "Lover." (The post is no longer available to view.) Delevingne was featured on the June 2020 issue of Variety, and Swift sent an email to the publication for the cover story, writing, "Cara is extreme, eccentric, hilarious, loving and deeply loyal." Swift also sent her a promotional cardigan for her "Folklore" album, which she wore with Kaia Gerber for an Instagram story. Delevingne supported Swift at the opening night of her Eras Tour in Arizona. The pair were also spotted hanging out before Jack Antonoff and Margaret Qualley's wedding in August 2023. In a 2024 conversation with Nikki Glaser for Interview magazine, Delevigne spoke about living with Swift at one point. "I was going through a really horrible breakup, and she let me live with her," she said. "We're very different people. She's very homely, because she looked after me so well, but we got into some — not trouble, but I definitely took her for a bit of a wild ride," she added. Todrick Hall met Taylor Swift after she saw his YouTube cover of her "1989" album. Todrick Hall got his start on YouTube doing mash-ups and covers of iconic songs and musicals. He created an epic Swift-inspired mashup in 2015, and the "Red" singer loved it so much she invited him backstage to her 1989 tour, and they became real-life friends. He also appeared in the "Look What You Made Me Do" music video in 2017. Hall has collaborated with Swift several times. Hall is widely known for his visual albums and his roles as guest judge and choreographer on "RuPaul's Drag Race." He also starred on Broadway as Lola in "Kinky Boots" in 2017, where Swift watched him perform. Over the years, Hall and Swift have been close collaborators. He appeared in and was an executive producer of the "You Need to Calm Down" music video, which won video of the year at the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards. In a June 2020 interview with Entertainment Tonight, Hall praised Swift for using her platform to promote activism amid the Black Lives Matter movement. When Swift announced the drop of her new album "Folklore," Hall posted to Instagram to say he would "be listening on repeat. AAAAAHHHHHHHH." After Swift announced her ninth studio album, "Evermore," Hall once again showed his support with a series of tweets. In 2021, he posted photos wearing his "Red (Taylor's Version)" merch on Instagram. Hall has also publicly supported some of Swift's other albums, like "Midnights" and "1989 (Taylor's Version)," on Instagram. Martha Hunt seems to have met Swift at a Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. Swift likely met model Martha Hunt at the 2014 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. After that event, the two were often photographed hanging out around Swift's New York apartment. Hunt has shown Swift support over the years. Hunt is still a model and appears to still be friends with Swift. Hunt attended Swift's Pennsylvania Reputation tour stop in July 2018, where she also took a trip to Swift's childhood home. Shortly after, she was spotted hanging out in New York with Swift during one of the singer's rare paparazzi snaps of 2018. In 2019, Hunt shared a touching post for Swift's 30th birthday and helped her celebrate a few days later. When "Taylor Swift City of Lover Concert" was released online in 2020, Hunt replied to a post on X about it, calling it, "just heavenly." Swift gifted Hunt with a cardigan from her "Folklore" merch, and Hunt posted a few pictures on Instagram of herself wearing it with the caption "peter losing wendy" — a lyric from the single "Cardigan." Hunt celebrated Swift's win at the 2021 Grammys by posting a screenshot of the singer's acceptance speech on her Instagram story. Selena Gomez and Swift go way back. Selena Gomez and Swift met way back in 2005. Gomez told KISS FM UK in 2017 that they met because they were both dating members of the Jonas Brothers at the time. "She was the girl with the big curly hair and the bracelets and the cowboy boots, and I was definitely up-and-coming. We just clicked," Gomez said. Gomez and Swift are now one of Hollywood's power-couple friendships. Gomez has furthered her own music career and even performed "Hands to Myself" with Swift during a May 2018 Reputation tour stop. While on the stage, Gomez gave a tribute to her longtime pal in front of Swift's fans. "The reason why she's one of my best friends is because this person has never, ever judged me for a decision I've made. She's always met me where I've been," Gomez said during the show. "She encouraged me when I had nothing to be encouraged about. And I don't know if I would be as strong as I am if I didn't have you and your family." Swift and Gomez still often show encouragement for each other online. When Swift released "Lover" and Gomez dropped "Lose You to Love Me" from her album "Rare," they promoted each other's songs on their Instagram stories. In August 2020, Gomez said that she's "always dreamt of doing a song with Taylor." That same month, she launched her new cooking show, and Swift made a video-call appearance on one of the episodes. She introduced Swift to celebrity chef Roy Choi as her "best friend." When Swift dropped her rerecording of "Love Story" in the lead-up to the release of "Fearless (Taylor's Version)," Gomez posted to her Instagram story, writing, "So proud of you, as always, Tay ... LISTEN to THIS album" In November 2021, Swift posted a TikTok of her and Gomez hanging out backstage during "Saturday Night Live." During a June 2022 interview on USA Today's "Entertain This" series, Gomez said "Taylor really loved" season two of her Hulu show, "Only Murder in the Building." In July 2022, the friends also got together to celebrate Gomez's 30th birthday. And Gomez went to a Texas show of Swift's Eras Tour. The friends celebrated the Fourth of July together in 2023, a few days before Swift released "Speak Now (Taylor's Version)." Gomez also attended an LA show of Swift's Eras Tour, and the friends have been spotted hanging out in LA and NYC periodically. Recently, Swift also attended Gomez's wedding to Benny Blanco. Blake Lively met Swift around 2015, but wasn't in tons of "squad" pics. It's unclear when Blake Lively and Swift first met, though some of the earliest photos of them together go back to 2015. Lively and her husband, Ryan Reynolds, also attended Swift's iconic "Taymerica" Fourth of July party in 2016. It's unclear if Lively is still close to Swift. Swift and Lively (and Lively's husband, Reynolds) have been linked together several times over the years. Lively's daughter James' voice is heard on Swift's 2017 song "Gorgeous," she and Reynolds appeared in photos from Swift's 2019 New Year's Eve party, and the couple helped Swift celebrate her 30th birthday. During the 2021 Grammys, Swift thanked Lively, Reynolds, and their three kids in her speech after she won album of the year for "Folklore." On Halloween 2021, fans speculated that Swift — donned in a squirrel costume she posted on Instagram earlier in the day — joined Lively and Reynolds for trick-or-treating in NYC. Lively also made her directorial debut in the music video for the "Red (Taylor's Version)" vault track "I Bet You Think About Me." Lively and Swift have been photographed hanging out together in New York City with groups of friends over the years. In 2023, the actor attended a Philadelphia show of the Eras Tour, and Swift gave Lively's daughters a shoutout during the concert. Lively also joined Swift in the stands to watch Kelce play in Super Bowl LVIII. Over the past year, there's been speculation that the two have had a falling out amid Justin Baldoni and Lively's "It Ends With Us" legal drama. Baldoni's legal team requested to depose Swift, though a judge denied the request. Lively and Swift have not been photographed together since. Lorde and Swift bonded over music. After Lorde burst onto the scene with her breakout single "Royals," Swift sent her flowers. Eventually, the two singers met up (at Shake Shack) and formed a friendship. Swift told PopCrush in 2014 that Lorde was one of the first people to hear "1989" before it was released because Swift said the young singer gives awesome advice. Lorde also performed as one of Swift's guest stars during her Washington, DC 1989 tour performance in 2015. Lorde's career took off as she battled reports about her friendship with Swift being over. In 2017, after a publication mistakenly reported that she and Swift were on the outs, Lorde posted on X: "I want to say one more time that Taylor has been there for me in all my dark and light moments these past five years. All of them." In recent years, however, Swift and Lorde haven't been photographed together much. Lorde, for her part, has continued to grow her musical career, following up her debut album with 2017's "Melodrama," 2021's "Solar Power," and 2025's "Virgin." Hailee Steinfeld was also an early member of Swift's "squad." The actor/singer appeared in a ton of Swift's Instagram posts in the pre-2015 "squad era," was in the "Bad Blood" video, and even walked onstage during one of the famous "squad" appearances from the 1989 tour. At the time, Steinfeld was best known for her roles in the "Pitch Perfect" series and budding music career. Steinfeld hasn't been seen with Swift much in recent years. Steinfeld told Seventeen magazine in 2016 that she didn't spend as much time with Swift as people might have assumed, but that she does consider her a friend. The actor told People in 2023 that she will always "run to the phone" whenever Swift calls. When Steinfeld posted on Instagram about her engagement to athlete Josh Allen in 2024, Swift liked the post. Swift had Ellie Goulding perform with her during the 1989 tour. The "Lights" singer was a fixture in Swift's "squad" during the 1989 tour, appeared in the "Bad Blood" video, and even reportedly first introduced Swift to musician Calvin Harris. Swift and Harris dated throughout 2015 and 2016. It's unclear if the two are still friends. Swift and Goulding haven't publicly interacted in years. For her part, Goulding told Billboard in December 2018 that she has been in the studio for the last two years working on a new album and enjoying her engagement to Caspar Jopling. She and Jopling have since gotten married and separated. Her studio album "Brightest Blue" was released in July 2020, and she's continued releasing music since then. Lily Aldridge appeared to meet Swift at a Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. Swift and model Lily Aldridge appeared to have met at the 2013 Victoria's Secret show. The model also appeared in Swift's star-studded "Bad Blood" music video in 2015. Aldridge has shown support for Swift over the years. The model is still working on campaigns while raising her two children with husband Caleb Followill. In 2018, she posted a throwback photo and called Swift her "bestest buddy" in an Instagram story for Swift's birthday. In 2021, Aldridge posted a video of Swift's Grammy performance to her Instagram story, captioned "Love you." When Swift rereleased "Red (Taylor's Version)," she took to her Instagram stories to show off her album merch in support of her friend. Aldridge attended one of the Nashville shows of the Eras Tour in 2023. Camila Cabello met Swift in 2014 at an awards show. Camila Cabello told Teen Vogue that she first met Swift at the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards, where she worked up the courage to say hello to her and tell her how big a fan she was. The two hit it off as friends, and, in March of 2015, Swift even threw Cabello an epic 18th birthday party attended by fellow "squad" members Gomez, Steinfeld, Lorde, and HAIM. Later that month, they were photographed together at the iHeart Radio Music Awards. Later, Cabello opened for the Reputation tour. Cabello opened for Swift on her Reputation tour in 2018. In 2019, Cabello and Halsey performed with Swift during her medley at the American Music Awards, the same show where Swift famously reacted to Cabello's "Señorita" performance with Shawn Mendes. Later that year, Cabello attended Swift's Christmas-themed birthday party. Swift also supported Cabello when she released her album "Romance" by posting about it on her Instagram story. In 2023, Cabello attended one of Swift's New Jersey shows on the Eras Tour. Emma Stone and Swift met over a decade ago. Emma Stone and Swift reportedly met at the Young Hollywood Awards in 2008 and became fast friends. At the time, Stone had already been in the hit comedy "Superbad" (2007) and was on her way to the A-list. Stone even brought Swift as her date to the 2010 premiere of her movie "Easy A." Stone still seems to be one of Swift's most low-key friends. Although Stone doesn't have Instagram and didn't appear in many of the Swift "squad" photos from the 2015-2016 era, she seems to still be acquainted with the singer. Stone attended the Reputation tour in New Jersey in July 2018, and the actor was spotted at Swift's Eras Tour in 2023. Fans have also speculated that Swift's "Speak Now (Taylor's Version)" vault track "When Emma Falls in Love" is about Stone. Stone is also credited on Swift's song "Florida!!! (feat. Florence + The Machine)" on "The Tortured Poets Department." Swift also mentioned in her docuseries about the Eras Tour that Stone helped connect her to a choreographer who worked on the shows. Abigail Anderson Berard has been friends with Swift since high school. Abigail Anderson Berard is Swift's hometown friend. The two met in high school, and Swift's song "Fifteen" is inspired by Berard. Swift brought Berard as her date to the 2015 Grammys. Berard and Swift still seem to be friends. In 2017, Swift was a bridesmaid at Berard's first wedding. Berard has also attended most of Swift's events, including "Taymerica" in 2018 and the singer's Christmas-themed 30th birthday party in 2019. After the surprise release of "Folklore" in July 2020, Swift gifted Berard the cardigan from the album's merch, and Berard posted a picture of herself wearing it on Instagram. The caption read, "Taylor. Swift. What an absolute wonder you are. Your lyrical ability to move us is seismic. Much like this beautiful gifted cardigan, this album is a dream. I've never been more appreciative of your art. This one did something to me." In 2023, Berard attended the second Nashville show on the Eras Tour, and Swift dedicated "Fifteen" to her. The longtime friend even showed up on the Spotify canvas for "New Romantics" on Swift's "1989 (Taylor's Version)." Swift also seemed to write about Berard once more in her recent song "Ruin the Friendship" from "The Life of a Showgirl." Ruby Rose and Swift met around 2015. Though she had been acting and DJing in Australia for many years, Ruby Rose got her big break in the US when she joined the cast of "Orange Is the New Black" in 2015. Rose appeared to befriend Swift sometime after the "Bad Blood" video made its debut, and the actress made an appearance during Swift's 1989 tour stop in New Orleans. In 2016, Swift presented Rose with an award at the 2016 GLAAD Media Awards. In 2018, Rose also wrote a long post on her Instagram to congratulate Swift on the tour. The two have been supportive of each other on social media over the years. Rose posted to her Instagram for Swift's birthday in 2017 and 2018, and made an Instagram story for her in 2019. When Rose was originally cast as Batwoman on The CW's show based on the DC Comics, Swift took to Instagram to support her on her next endeavor. In May 2020, Rose announced that she was leaving the series after the first season. In 2025, Rose posted on Threads about Swift amid speculation that the singer had become more conservative or had aligned herself with certain political views. "As someone who has spent many nights discussing the world, social injustice and life, with The Show Girl herself. I refuse to say her name in the same sentence as the hate group, Wackadoodles, are conspiring to attach her to," Rose wrote of Swift at the start of the thread. Jaime King and Swift met in 2014. Jaime King was starring on The CW's "Hart of Dixie" when she met Swift at a 2014 Golden Globes party. In 2015, King's ex-husband Kyle Newman directed Swift's 2015 music video for "Style." King and Swift became such fast friends that Swift was named godmother to King's son Leo Thames not long after. It's unclear if King and Swift are still close. On December 8, 2018, King shared a throwback photo of Swift dancing at that 2014 Golden Globes party where they met. It appears that it may have been deleted since then. King has seemingly attended fewer of the big events than other members of the squad, but the two have been known to have quiet nights together, just like this 2019 post from a few days before Swift's 30th birthday depicts. In recent years, the pair has not publicly interacted or been photographed together. However, in 2025, following Swift's engagement to Kelce, King told Us Weekly she was "stoked." "This is her person," King said, referring to the athlete. "Yeah, I'm so happy." Ed Sheeran and Swift seemingly became close when he opened for her tour in 2013. Ed Sheeran and Swift performed together at the Z100 Jingle Ball in 2012 after Sheeran was featured on a song from her album "Red" that released that same year. Swift also had Sheeran open for her Red tour, solidifying his place in the "squad." Sheeran's career has continued to blossom, and he's still friends with Swift. Sheeran's solo music career has continued to bloom with several hit albums and successful tours. He also collaborated with Swift again on her "Reputation" album, which was released in 2017. Sheeran returned on his original "Red" duet, "Everything Has Changed," for "Red (Taylor's Version)," and he also collaborated with her on the vault track "Run." In a 2021 Instagram post, he shared with fans that "Run" was actually the first song he and Swift wrote together. When Swift released "Midnights," Sheeran took to his Instagram stories to tell his fans, "So great! @taylorswift loving the whole album, everyone check it out." In 2025, the pair publicly joked about how Sheeran found out about Swift's engagement to Kelce from social media — in part, Swift said, because Sheeran can be a hard person to get in touch with. Swift met Dianna Agron while the actor was still starring on "Glee." Dianna Agron was acting on "Glee" when she met and befriended Swift sometime in 2011. Agron was also a member of the supposed "22" liner notes shout-outs, and Swift even appeared at her pal's circus-themed 26th birthday party. Agron is still acting, but it's unclear if she and Swift are friends. Agron has continued to act in independent features, in addition to directing and doing charity work. She and Swift haven't been spotted together on or offline in a few years, so it's unclear if they're still friends. In May 2023, a Rolling Stone interviewer asked Agron about the reports that she dated Swift in 2012. Her response was, "That is so interesting. I mean, there have been many stories about my dating life that are so wildly untrue. That's funny." Ashley Avignone is a stylist who met Swift in the pre-"squad" era. Ashley Avignone is a fashion stylist who has had Stone as a client, which might have been how she met Swift. The pair appears to have connected sometime in the early 2010s. Avignone is another friend whose name was supposedly mentioned in the secret "Red" notes. Avignone appears to still be in touch with Swift. Avignone attended several Reputation tour stops in 2018, including one where she posted a picture with Swift to Instagram, captioning it "Squa...JK." In 2018, Avignone hung out with Swift at the singer's childhood home, and the next year she attended Swift's 30th birthday party. She hyped up Swift on her Instagram stories after the "Red (Taylor's Version)" release, writing that the song "22" "still hits." Avignone joined in on Swift's 2023 Fourth of July festivities, and she attended a Nashville show of the Eras Tour. The stylist also accompanied Swift to the Super Bowl to watch the Chiefs beat the 49ers in 2024. Earlier this year, the two were photographed together in New York City. Gigi Hadid may have met Swift through mutual friend Kloss. Gigi Hadid reportedly met Swift in 2014 at a pre-Oscar bash with mutual pal Kloss. A year later, Hadid appeared in Swift's "Bad Blood" music video, and in May 2015, Hadid joined Swift on stage as a special guest for one of her 1989 tour stops. Hadid has regularly spoken highly of Swift to the press, and the model told Elle Canada in 2015 that the "squad" was a source of female empowerment. Hadid still appears to be friends with Swift. The supermodel appears to still be close with Swift and called her a "blessing and an inspiration to me and so many" in an Instagram story on Swift's 29th birthday. That same year, 2018, she attended Swift's New Year's Eve party. She was also seen at Swift's jolly 30th birthday celebration at the end of 2019. In 2020, Hadid had her first child with musician Zayn Malik. After her baby girl was born, Hadid shared that "auntie" Swift sent her a handmade blanket. In 2022, Swift made an appearance at the launch party for Hadid's cashmere brand, Guest in Residence. Swift then wore a piece from the brand in a TikTok video for her "Midnights Mayhem With Me" series, and Hadid shouted it out in an Instagram story. Hadid attended Eras Tour shows in both Nashville and Santa Clara. In recent years, she has been photographed hanging out with Swift and other friends in New York City. Swift connected with the band HAIM years ago. HAIM is a band comprised of three sisters: Este Haim, Danielle Haim, and Alana Haim. Swift and HAIM's relationship seemingly began online in the early 2010s after both of them tweeted about their love for one another's music. Swift hung out with the band at a Golden Globes party in January 2015, and later that month, they all took a trip to Hawaii together. Swift invited the band to open for her 1989 tour later that year. The sisters have collaborated with Swift many times over the years — and have been regularly spotted hanging out with her. The band has continued touring, making music, and hanging out with Swift over the years. The band collaborated with Swift on her album "Evermore." They were featured on the track "No Body, No Crime." "Our dream of singing on a country folk song with the one and only queen of storytelling, miss Taylor Swift is our second Hanukkah present to you," the group wrote in an Instagram post at the time. In February 2021, Swift posted a photo on Instagram of herself and the Haim sisters hanging out in footie pajamas and eating pizza. That May, Swift posted a picture of them hanging out with the caption, "We meet up every Tuesday night for dinner and a glass of wine" — a lyric from "No Body, No Crime." The band showed their support for "Red (Taylor's Version)" on Instagram stories in November 2021. In July 2022, Swift surprised fans by appearing on stage with Haim at the band's concert in London. They performed a mash-up of Haim's "Gasoline" and Swift's "Love Story" in matching leather pants. When Swift released a teaser trailer for her "Midnights" music videos that year, the Haim sisters were credited at the end. The sister group joined as an opening act for a leg of Swift's Eras Tour, and they were also photographed hanging out with Swift on her days off. They also celebrated the Fourth of July with Swift in 2023. In June 2026, Swift was also photographed with the sisters — wearing matching punny Kicks shirts — at the NBA Finals. Swift and Lena Dunham's friendship seemingly began online. In 2012, breakout actor and writer Lena Dunham praised Swift's music on X, saying she would have written papers about the singer in college had the "Red" album existed then. Swift responded and said she loved Dunham's HBO show "Girls," and then Dunham supposedly sent her a DM saying she was excited to become friends. In 2013, the two met in person at the Grammys. In 2015, Dunham appeared in the "Bad Blood" music video. Dunham still seems to view Swift in high regard. Dunham attended Swift's Reputation tour in 2018 and told The Cut in November of that year that even she was surprised to still be friends with the superstar. Dunham also showed her support for Swift in 2018 after the singer publicly endorsed two Democratic candidates in Tennessee. In 2019, she praised Swift on Instagram for her "ME!" music video and posted a heartfelt message for Swift's 30th birthday later that year. In September 2021, Swift was one of Dunham's bridesmaids at her wedding to Luis Felber. Not long after, Dunham also supported Swift's "Midnights" album via an Instagram story. Part of the post read, "It's an honor and a pleasure to watch you best yourself again and again – which is hard to do when you're the best. Fan, friend, it's all the same. Now back to repeat listens." In 2023, Dunham attended a Philadelphia Eras Tour show on her birthday. Swift announced during the surprise-song set that the actor requested "Forever and Always" — and she'd play it for her as a gift. Dunham also gave Swift a mention in the acknowledgments of her 2026 memoir "Famesick." Per USA Today, Dunham wrote, "TayTay — you sing the songs I wrote this book to, the stories that pulled these stories out of me, the music that makes the whole world feel seen, and yet somehow, miraculously, you also pick up every desperate call at every desperate hour." This story was originally published in January 2019, and most recently updated on June 29, 2026.