It looks like Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce may be getting ready to say "I do" this weekend in the middle of Manhattan. Multiple reports suggest that Swift and Kelce will marry at Madison Square Garden on the Fourth of July weekend, surrounded by hundreds (or perhaps thousands) of their closest friends, family, and fans. Welcome to New York, indeed. Given that Swift and her reps have not commented on the details of the pop star's wedding — Swift's rep also didn't respond to a request for comment from Business Insider — much of what we know so far is based on reports and educated guesswork. Still, something is definitely happening — something big enough to require street-closure permits — and the hoopla has Swift's name written all over it. Here's a rundown of everything we know about Swift and Kelce's rumored nuptials. Swift and Kelce have reportedly rented out Madison Square Garden for July 4th weekend In early June, Page Six broke the news that Swift and Kelce were planning to marry at MSG, New York City's most iconic sports and music venue. According to TMZ, over 1,000 guests are expected to attend the ceremony at MSG. The tabloid also reported that Swift and Kelce paid millions to rent the venue for multiple days. (If true, that shouldn't be much of a problem, as Swift's net worth recently reached $2 billion. Kelce's personal fortune is nothing to sniff at, either.) The New York Times later corroborated the report, citing an entertainment industry executive who said Swift had rented MSG for Thursday, July 2, and Friday, July 3. Additionally, City Hall spokesperson Dora Pekec confirmed to CBS News that a permit was filed to close the streets surrounding MSG from July 2 to July 4. Why get married on the Fourth of July weekend, you may ask? Swift has a long history of celebrating Independence Day with friends and family; she is known for throwing lavish parties at her Rhode Island mansion to mark the summer holiday. In 2023, shortly after splitting from Matty Healy, Swift celebrated the Fourth of July with a group of friends, including the Haim sisters and Selena Gomez. She shared photos from the party on July 7, 2023 — the first night on the Eras Tour's stop at Arrowhead Stadium, where Kelce would first lay eyes on Swift. "Happy belated Independence Day from your local neighborhood independent girlies," Swift wrote in her Instagram caption. "See you tonight Kansas Cityyy." Kelce's teammates have booked hotel rooms in Times Square, according to reports Citing a source familiar with the accommodations, The New York Times reported that multiple members of the Kansas City Chiefs have booked hotel rooms at the Marriott Marquis in Times Square for the Fourth of July weekend. Amtrak police officers who patrol Penn Station, located just beneath MSG, have also been told to expect a Swift wedding that weekend, according to the Times. Stevie Nicks and Tim McGraw are expected to perform at the ceremony Multiple sources told Rolling Stone that Stevie Nicks will attend Swift and Kelce's wedding, with one source saying she's scheduled to perform. Swift has cited Nicks as one of her biggest musical influences and trusted advisors. For her part, Nicks has repeatedly praised Swift's songwriting and even wrote an introductory poem for Swift's 2024 album, "The Tortured Poets Department." That same year, Nicks told Rolling Stone that she supports Swift's relationship with Kelce. "She's in a good place right now, and I think she has a good man," Nicks said. "I hope they fall deeper and deeper in love and ride off into the sunset. He does his thing and she does her thing, and then they come back together and get married and have babies if she wants that. I just want all of that for her." According to Page Six, Tim McGraw will also perform at the event. This would be a full-circle moment for Swift, who released her debut single, "Tim McGraw," 20 years ago. The Swift-Kelce wedding guest list could include many more celebrities With a venue like Madison Square Garden reportedly playing host to Swift and Kelce's wedding, there's plenty of room to accommodate a massive amount of guests. Swift is known for having many famous friends, so pals like Gigi Hadid, Abigail Anderson Berard, Ashley Avignone, Lena Dunham, Sabrina Carpenter, Hayley Williams, Ed Sheeran, Benson Boone, Sombr, Gomez, and the Haim sisters seem like shoo-ins for the guest list. It's possible that Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds will also be in attendance, especially given that Swift is their children's godmother. Other likely wedding guests include Kelce's teammate, Patrick Mahomes, and his wife, Brittany Mahomes; Swift's friend and go-to producer, Jack Antonoff; Swift's other favorite coworkers, Aaron Dessner and Max Martin; and Swift's Eras Tour crew. If the MSG reports are true, then we may expect a long and eclectic guest list. Could Elizabeth Taylor's son score an invite after his mother inspired a song on Swift's latest album? What about Mariska Hargitay and Ellen Pompeo, who play Olivia Benson and Meredith Grey on TV — the namesakes for Swift's cats? Swift also has a long list of collaborators who seem like potential candidates, from Kendrick Lamar and Ice Spice to Phoebe Bridgers and Florence Welch. "I've heard Taylor invited so many people it's going to be bigger than the Met Gala," one industry insider told Page Six. This story is developing. Check back for updates.