Every Fourth of July, my family travels to the Adirondacks, where revelers enjoy setting off fireworks all weekend. We used to love watching these displays over the lake, but since adopting our noise-averse pup, Olive, we've become focused on helping her cope with the sudden pops, hisses, and booms that punctuate the holiday. Determined to ease Olive's noise anxiety, I consulted trainers, behaviorists, and even a sound expert. I wanted to learn whether ear protection might help and, if so, how to identify the best dog earmuffs for anxiety. In preparation for the Fourth, I've been testing four dog earmuffs with Olive. Since sporadic fireworks are already going off, I've had the chance to try some of these tools for short bursts. I'll have a full evaluation after the Fourth and will report back with our experience. Dog guardians should temper their expectations when it comes to this kind of gear. Research on the efficacy of earmuffs is limited, and arguments in their favor are largely anecdotal. The experts I consulted also emphasized that earmuffs are not a realistic stand-alone solution. They should be used as part of a broader management plan that may include desensitization training, medication, and environmental modifications such as closing windows, playing background music, and creating a safe space for dogs to retreat to. Although the earmuffs I tested have limited ability to block sound, especially low-frequency sounds like thunder and fireworks, two options stood out as promising. Each one has unique strengths that make them well-suited to different dogs and situations. How we tested dog earmuffs My dog, Olive, is petrified of fireworks. All it takes is one unexpected boom to send her fleeing to the bathroom, where she trembles and pants for hours. It's heartbreaking. This inspired me to find the best dog earmuffs by evaluating their performance in several key categories. While I did my best to simulate real-world conditions, I should acknowledge the inherent limitations of my methodology. For one, there are some things I just couldn't replicate, like the change in barometric pressure during a thunderstorm, or the bone-rattling sensation of nearby fireworks. I also can't get in Olive's head; I can't actually hear what she hears. With these restraints in mind, here's how I landed on my top picks for dog ear protection. Comfort: This was the top priority in my evaluations. "Nothing else matters if the dog is miserable when the ear protection is on," says Amanda Farah, a certified professional dog trainer and national training and behavior coordinator at Best Friends Animal Society. I weighed each earmuff, awarding higher scores to those that weighed less. Then I held the fabric against my skin and checked for any scratchiness or rough stitching. Finally, I observed Olive's response while she wore each earmuff, noting whether she pawed at it or appeared distressed with it on. Fit: Alexandra Bassett, founder and head dog trainer at Dog Savvy Positive Dog Training, says that even the best dog earmuffs won't be effective if they don't fit properly. Earmuffs with multiple sizes and adjustability ranked higher, as did those that accurately matched their advertised size. I also observed whether the earmuffs stayed in place while Olive ran across the room and jumped on and off the couch. Transparent data: Many brands make big claims about their products' ability to block sound. I wanted to see that such claims were backed by actual studies and data. I checked each company's website for information on decibel reduction and contacted brands directly if this info wasn't readily available. Effective sound muffling: To assess how well each earmuff blocked out sound, I conducted a series of tests in which I recorded Olive's reactions to a loop of dogs barking — something she reacts to but doesn't find distressing. First, I established her baseline response without ear protection, then I tested each earmuff while gradually increasing the volume. Durability: If used for working or hunting dogs, earmuffs should withstand some rough treatment. I inspected each product for visible defects, such as loose stitching. Then I scratched the material with a dinner fork 30-plus times and tugged on any straps or velcro, noting any sustained damage. Ease of cleaning: Ideally, earmuffs should be easy to clean, as they can collect dirt when dogs wear them outside. For this test, I smeared dirt on each earmuff and left them overnight. Then I attempted to spot clean them and noted the results. Finally, I washed each earmuff according to the manufacturer's instructions, noting any discoloration or wear. Warranty and return policy: A warranty offers peace of mind with pricier earmuffs, and a good return policy is important for pet parents unsure of their dog's size. Earmuffs with both received higher scores. Read more about how Business Insider Reviews tests and researches pet products. Best fabric earmuffs This knit band stretches over your dog’s head to provide gentle compression and dampen sound by blocking the ear canals. What we like What we don't like Best for: Grooming and noisy events, such as fireworks, when used alongside other strategies like training, medication, and environmental modifications Skip this if: You have a working dog who's exposed to loud sounds and needs serious ear protection (e.g., hunting dogs, search and rescue dogs, and military dogs). This snood-style wrap edged out the competition in one critical category: comfort. Dr. Leslie Sinn, a board-certified veterinary behaviorist, says that ear protection will only work if the dog tolerates wearing it. Soft fabric wraps, like the Happy Hoodie, are usually better tolerated by pets than hard-shell muffs, says trainer Alexandra Bassett. The Happy Hoodie's material is soft, lightweight, and free of scratchy seams. Generally, Olive doesn't love wearing gear, but once the Happy Hoodie was in place, she didn't paw at it or try to remove it; she just continued resting. Another area where the Happy Hoodie shines is the fit, which was snug but not too tight. It comes in five sizes, and the stretchy material accommodates different head shapes. Olive's head circumference is 14.25 inches, so we tried a large. It stayed put, even as Olive moved about the room, and it didn't seem too tight or hinder her breathing or ability to eat or drink. The Happy Hoodie may also calm some dogs with its gentle compression. "A lot of dogs actually find the snug, swaddling feeling calming," Bassett says. Research is limited, but there is plenty of anecdotal evidence for this. I can't speak for every dog, but Olive was noticeably calmer on a recent road trip while wearing the Happy Hoodie. And during my sound-muffling tests, she was less reactive to sounds she would normally bark at. Again, I can't be certain the Happy Hoodie was the reason, but it seems plausible. Just keep in mind, every dog's experience will differ. Even though Olive didn't seem to mind wearing the Happy Hoodie, another reporter noted her dog appeared more stressed by the snug fit. What's more, unlike many brands that exaggerate their products' abilities to reduce low-frequency noise for dogs, Happy Hoodie stands out for its (mostly) honest marketing claims. They provide a chart with testing results and remarks from bioacoustic expert Dr. Peter M. "Skip" Scheifele, who confirms that while the Happy Hoodie can help keep dogs calm during loud events, it can't block low-frequency sounds. This transparency is refreshing in a market ruled by bombastic claims that appeal to dog guardians' desperation. As we approach the Fourth, fireworks have already been popping off. This has been rough on poor Olive, but it has also let me test the Happy Hoodie ahead of the bigger displays to come. Results were mixed. While Olive still showed signs of anxiety, like panting and shaking, she settled down more quickly than she typically does. I can't base my evaluation on these results alone, though. Since these fireworks were unpredictable, Olive was already in a panicked state by the time I could get the Happy Hoodie on her. Plus, the fireworks were brief and not as overwhelming as the full displays we're anticipating on the Fourth. But the Happy Hoodie isn't perfect. It's not the most durable product, and we noticed loose threads and pilling after washing. This won't be a massive issue for most, but we have to give a nod to another tested band that surpassed the Happy Hoodie in our durability tests, the Nanaki. The Happy Hoodie also took a considerably long time to dry, whereas the Nanaki came out of the wash perfectly intact and dried quickly. Best headphones With active noise-canceling technology, Pawnix may help dogs exposed to ongoing, predictable noise, such as rumbling engines or machinery. What we like What we don't like Best for: Dogs exposed to consistent background noise, like a plane engine or vacuum cleaner. Skip this if: You're trying to block unpredictable, low-frequency sounds like fireworks or thunder. Pawnix goes beyond the passive sound protection of fabric wraps and incorporates active noise cancellation (ANC) technology. Put simply, ANC detects ambient sounds and generates inverted sound waves to cancel them out. This makes Pawnix useful in contexts where noise is consistent and predictable, like background machinery or the subway. Unfortunately, this technology won't be effective against the unpredictable booms of thunder or fireworks because electronics simply can't create sound waves fast enough. Limitations aside, Pawnix performed best in my sound-muffling tests. While Olive appeared to hear the recording of barking dogs, she didn't react — even at the highest volume. I can't say whether this was due to the earmuffs' sound-blocking foam or noise-canceling technology, but the results were encouraging. I also like that Pawnix uses Bluetooth to play calming music in your dog's ears. "Physics indicates that masking is the most effective management tool to decrease the impact of the scary sounds on our dogs," says Eileen Anderson, a writer who covers dogs and sounds and holds a master's in engineering with a specialty in acoustics. However, it's important to consider that some pets may find the added noise distressing. After all, we can't ask our dogs how they perceive the sounds, says trainer Amanda Farah, and they can't escape it if it's too loud or annoying. Pawnix partially addresses this concern by limiting the volume of its speakers. For Olive, adding music was a positive experience. During the first 10 minutes of wearing these without music, she seemed tense. After playing music, though, she settled and actually took a nap! Fit is another strong point for Pawnix, with five standard sizes and the option to order custom sizes for dogs with unique proportions. Pawnix also features drawstrings that tighten around the neck. Olive fell at the lower end of the medium size, which turned out to be a little too big for her. If you find the Pawnix flops around on your dog's head, the brand recommends adjusting the electronic components, which allows you to tighten the elastic bands. They also offer free exchanges if you're not happy with the size. One area (and not an insignificant one) where Pawnix falls short is its lack of transparency regarding its noise-reducing capabilities. Unlike the Happy Hoodie or the Rex Specs (another earmuff I tested), there are no studies or concrete evidence to support claims of a 30 dB reduction in sound. I reached out to the company about this, but did not receive a response. What else we tested Nanaki ($19-$22 at Chewy): This has a design similar to the Happy Hoodie. It's a stretchy band of fabric that slides over your dog's head to provide a barrier against sound. The material is buttery soft, and it hugged Olive's head without choking her. However, Nanaki didn't beat Happy Hoodie for the same reason I found fault with Pawnix — there's a lack of testing or data to support claims of "effective noise reduction." I'd prefer to see some kind of concrete evidence that this works. Nanaki also performed slightly worse than Happy Hoodie in my sound-blocking tests. Rex Specs ($74 at Chewy): These stretchy earmuffs were designed to protect military dogs' hearing and feature sound-absorbing foam inserts. They're well-made and durable. Rex Specs are also tested for sound reduction in accordance with guidelines recommended by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). Results are displayed on the company's site, showing that Rex Specs reduced noise exposure by 18 and 24 dB at very low frequencies (20 Hz to 120 Hz). Unfortunately, Rex Specs fell short in the area my experts consider most important: comfort. These felt too tight around Olive's throat — a common complaint in customer reviews. Olive appeared notably distressed wearing these. I also found them to be fairly ineffective in my soundproofing tests, which was disappointing given their high price. What to look for in dog earmuffs There are lots of sound-blocking products available for dogs, but many aren't worth buying. Ultimately, the best dog earmuffs are the ones your pet is comfortable wearing and that seem to calm them. Here's what my experts recommend focusing on when choosing ear protection for your dog. Comfortable materials and design: "A lot of people underestimate how important comfort is," Bassett says. "If the dog spends the entire time pawing at it or trying to remove it, it's probably not helping much emotionally." Look for lightweight, soft materials that your dog is more likely to accept wearing. Accurate fit: Don't skip the measuring tape! Bassett says getting an accurate fit is important for two reasons: it helps keep sound out and makes the dog more comfortable. The fabric wraps featured here aren't adjustable, but they come in multiple sizes and can stretch to accommodate bigger heads. The Pawnix can be tightened around the neck. Data related to efficacy: For hard-shell earmuffs, Bassett says she likes to see companies provide actual decibel-reduction data rather than just marketing language. This is particularly important for working dogs whose hearing may be at risk. Warranties and good return policies: Some earmuffs, like the Pawnix and Rex Specs, are pricey items. And, as I learned, it can be hard to get the right size on the first try. A solid warranty and return policy protect your investment. How to acclimate a dog to wearing ear protection "Very gradually — and ideally, long before you actually need it," Bassett says. She recommends planning for four to six weeks of gradual conditioning. "One of the biggest mistakes people make is pulling out ear muffs for the first time during fireworks and trying to put them on an already panicking dog. That usually backfires." Bassett lays out the following steps for introducing dog ear protection. - Let the dog investigate it. - Pair it with high-value treats like string cheese, cooked meat, or lunch meat. - Briefly touch around the ears before putting the gear on. - Put it on for just a second or two at first, and remove quickly. - Reward heavily before, during, and after you take the gear off. - Slowly build duration over multiple sessions over the course of about four to six weeks. Dog earmuffs FAQs What other strategies can pet owners use to calm their noise-averse dog? First, Farah suggests seeing a veterinarian to rule out pain, which can be a contributing factor. Once medical conditions are ruled out, you can take a multimodal approach that might include: - Desensitization and counterconditioning: These techniques involve exposing your dog to the scary sound at a low volume while offering treats. Gradually increase the volume, always staying below your dog's stress threshold. - Exercise: If you can predict the noisy event, plan to tire your dog out beforehand and get potty breaks out of the way so they don't need to go outside. - Designate a safe place: This could be a bathroom, basement, or closet filled with blankets, favorite toys, and chews for distraction. - Soundproof your home: Close windows and doors, and draw curtains to reduce noise levels. - Play background noise: Turn on the TV, play white noise, or put on soothing classical music to muffle scary sounds. - Offer enrichment: Engage your dog with a puzzle toy, lick mat, snuffle mat, or stuffed KONG to keep them focused on a task rather than the frightening stimuli. - Use compression wraps: Products like the Thundershirt apply gentle pressure to create a calming effect. - Try pheromone products: Diffusers and sprays can create a sense of calm. ThunderEase, made by the same company as the ThunderShirt compression vest, is a popular option. - Look into medication: Ask your vet about anti-anxiety medications or supplements that may help. - Stay calm: Dogs are empathic creatures and pick up on our feelings. Try to maintain a low-key and soothing presence. Do vets recommend dog ear muffs? Yes, vets do recommend them. "A lot of research has been done on this topic in military working dogs," veterinary behaviorist Sinn says. "We certainly recommend them to our clients with pups who have noise phobias." What is the best ear protection for dogs? "Truly, it is based on what the dog will tolerate," Sinn says, adding that there's no official testing system in place to verify efficacy. "We must assume that some protection is better than none and that the most effective option is what the dog will accept and use." You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.