Forget the Met Gala. Some of the most eye-catching fashions of the year were on display at the 2026 BET Awards. On Sunday night, musicians, actors, and more arrived at the Peacock Theater in Los Angeles to celebrate "Culture's Biggest Night." Clipse and Teyana Taylor each took home three awards, and a tribute to Lauryn Hill brought out SZA, Doja Cat, Lizzo, and her children. The musician also received the night's Living Legend Icon Award. While many attendees looked stunning in memorable looks, others, unfortunately, chose confusing outfits that missed the mark. These are the best and worst fashion moments from the red carpet. Teyana Taylor looked like royalty in a burgundy gown. The actor and musician wore a Stephane Rolland design that was strapless, corseted, and complete with a full, asymmetrical skirt. The gown also had a small cape attached at the back. Taylor, who received the Icon of the Year award that night, completed the look with simple jewelry, subtle makeup, and a tiara-style headpiece that matched her gown. Her look was among the most memorable on the night's red carpet, just one example of Taylor's standout style. Tierra Whack's oversize coat overwhelmed her. The rapper-singer arrived on the red carpet in a gray trench coat with utility pockets from top to bottom. The floor-length piece also had a high collar and long sleeves that extended past the musician's arms. Unfortunately, the piece overwhelmed the musician's petite frame. Her black-and-red sneakers didn't pack much of a punch either. Vibrant pumps or solid-red flats might have looked better. Janet Jackson looked cool in pinstripes and statement accessories. The music icon arrived on the red carpet wearing oversize pinstripe trousers in gray, a Tupac T-shirt (a nod to her late "Poetic Justice" costar) over a white pinstripe blouse, and a thick leather belt around her waist. The outfit was eye-catching on its own, but Jackson made it better with a surplus of accessories. She wore a fedora-style hat with a lace trim, a diamond chain attached to her pants, chunky rings, and numerous silver bangles on both wrists. T.I. wore a plaid suit that needed a few tweaks. The rapper and actor appeared in a gray plaid ensemble. It comprised trousers, a blazer, a top, a tie, and a pocket square — all of which matched. While the concept was pristine and the top half of his outfit looked great, especially with his tinted sunglasses, the bottom half could have benefited from a change. Solid-colored pants could have sharpened the look, and more tailoring could have taken it to the next level. Keke Palmer proved that her fashion never misses. The actor arrived at the BET Awards in an embellished Gucci gown. The asymmetrical design was black, form-fitting, and adorned with silver studs. The skin-bearing dress was also backless and had a high-thigh slit, adding a daring edge to the look. The podcast host perfected the ensemble with black pumps, silver jewelry, and rosy makeup. Kehlani's dress looked too stiff. The "Folded" singer wore a red design from Chats by C.DAM, featuring exaggerated shoulders, ruched fabric, and a metal brooch at the chest. While the form-fitting look was flattering, it also came across as rigid and serious, especially in the shoulders, which didn't match the event's fun vibe. A different neckline could have improved the style. Lizzo stunned in a shimmering, see-through gown. Christian Cowan designed the singer's brown sleeveless dress that hugged her body. Its pleated skirt reached the floor, and its light sparkles shimmered in the light. The dress was the perfect choice for the musician, as were her accessories. The Houston native wore a few statement rings, neutral makeup, and her blonde hair styled in dramatic waves. Shaun Ross wore a confusing jacket. The model and musician was photographed wearing a pleather design from the Chinese fashion brand Annakiki. It had long sleeves, a floor-length cut, and a wide hood that extended to his shoulders. On Instagram, Ross said he was paying tribute to Missy Elliot, who has made oversized black leather looks a core part of her fashion, particularly in her debut music video, "The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)." Unfortunately, the hood detracted from the outfit, and its purpose wasn't clear during Ross's walk down the red carpet. Jaafar Jackson looked dapper in navy blue. The "Michael" star wore Valentino to his first BET Awards. The designer look, which included a satin, floral-print blazer, dark trousers, and a button-up shirt, was tailored to him perfectly. He looked refined and opted for no accessories. Common chose a suit that looked too much like loungewear. The two-piece set was black with an abstract paisley print in red, yellow, and blue from top to bottom. While the colors and pattern worked for him, the suit's silhouette didn't. Its straight-leg trousers and unlined jacket made the eveningwear look more like pajamas. Queen Latifah was unmissable in her larger-than-life ensemble. The music and movie legend posed on the carpet in a black gown that was anything but ordinary. It had a solid black skirt with a subtle mermaid silhouette and a puffy, coat-like bodice. The latter was puffed at the waist, collar, and sleeves, creating a truly memorable fashion moment. Her hair was also styled in a braided bun, which perfectly complemented her textured outfit. Queen's hair never misses. Chlöe Bailey wore an old-Hollywood style that made her look older than she is. Valdrin Sahiti designed her strapless, sequin-embellished gown, featuring a pointed neckline and a train skirt. The dress could have worked for the young musician and actor, but it was styled incorrectly. A darker, sleeker hairstyle, a different glam (sans the matchy-matchy eyeshadow), and more fun jewelry could have improved the look. Doechii took a daring approach, and it worked for her. She wore a brown knit gown at the BET Awards. The Dsquared2 piece featured a deep neckline, waist cutouts, and a form-fitting skirt — not to mention, it was also see-through. The dress was as pretty as it was daring, making Doechii one of the night's best-dressed stars. JaNa Craig probably should have picked a different dress. Craig, known for her role on "Love Island," attended her first BET Awards in a cream-colored dress with a puffed bodice and straight skirt. Unfortunately, the gown's quilted design made the garment appear awkward and too large on the reality TV star. A more form-fitted bodice might have looked better.