Good morning! Success reporter Emma Burleigh here, filling in for Kristin while she’s on vacation. The World Cup is already halfway through its mid-July run, with international teams entering the knock-out phase—and nothing could quell the fan fervor taking over North American cities. Office workers are secretly tuning in from their phones, keeping a close eye on scores during meetings, and heading straight from the office to bars to catch the action. It’s a $17 billion productivity drain, yet some employers are making the most out of the global spectacle. There are some offering up practical pivots to the World Cup madness. Wall Street banks like Goldman Sachs, Citibank, and JPMorgan Chase are temporarily allowing staffers to work from home on match days, as traffic clogs up commutes in North American host cities. Heineken also rolled out a Fan Volunteer program encouraging employees to use their volunteer time off (VTO) to give back to their local communities while gathering for the games during work hours. And even brands are shelling out for white-collar workers to get in on the fun. Stella Artois, a sponsor of the sporting event, rolled out a “Work From Bar” campaign, footing $100,000 worth of Stella Artois beverages for professionals who tune in at local pubs during their 9-to-5s. Other employers are leaning into the moment by encouraging staffers to enjoy the games together, instead of stealthily streaming from their cubicles. E-Land World, a fashion retailer, held a viewing party of the South Korea vs. Czech Republic match at its Seoul headquarters earlier this month. And at Canadian legal tech company Clio, World Cup watch parties have become a fixture of office life this summer. “We leaned into it and thought, ‘Okay, folks are going to come in anyhow, let’s make sure that it’s a positive experience for them,’” Marina Harris, chief people officer at Clio, tells Fortune. “I don’t at all view it as a distraction. We view these moments where folks are coming together in the office and building connection as being a multiplier, as actually giving back in different ways.” The business has been streaming the FIFA matches in its offices across Canada—from Barnaby and Calgary, to Toronto and Vancouver—since the event kicked off last month. Clio also offers even greater leniency around its hybrid work model, but employees haven’t been stacking up their remote days. In fact, Clio staffers have been coming into the office more than usual on game days to experience the energy with their coworkers. And they have plenty of opportunities to get in on the action; aside from regular screenings, Clio threw an office mixer complete with World Cup decorations, games, and snacks. And next month, the business will host a “summer social” in Toronto themed around the tournament. Clio says that its World Cup employee strategy is already paying off. Employees are choosing to come in and connect, instead of tuning in from home. The games have also boosted morale, energizing employees on the clock. And the CPO doesn’t buy into the productivity panic; she says that by stepping away from their desks to take a World Cup brain break with colleagues, staffers return to their laptops recharged. And Clio is determined to back up its culture bet with hard stats; after the competition comes to a close in July, it’ll crunch employee engagement to see what has changed. “We don’t [measure] productivity as keystrokes in front of your laptop. It’s not just about hours worked, it’s truly finding ways to manage your energy and getting the most out of your day,” Harris says. “They may lose 20 minutes or whatever it ends up being, but they’re gaining that energy, and we see them being more productive when they come back to their work.” Emma Burleigh Success Reporter emma.burleigh@fortune.com Around the Table A round-up of the most important HR headlines. Meta is pressing pause on a controversial employee tracking program that monitored computer inputs after a security problem leaked staffers’ sensitive data. Wired EV tech company Lucid is cutting nearly a fifth of its workforce as part of a cost-saving strategy, with interim CEO Marc Winterhoff stepping down effective immediately. CNBC More than half of non-LGBTQ employees said they “feel prouder” working for an employer that openly supports the community, according to a recent Harris Poll survey. HR Brew Watercooler Everything you need to know from Fortune. Digital coworkers. Fiona Fung, the engineering leader behind Anthropic’s Claude Code, said that overusing AI agents was making her staffers’ work a “lonely experience.” —Sasha Rogelberg Internet insiders. Cursor CEO Michael Truell tapped into the company’s Discord server as a recruiting pool, hiring members from the social platform to develop products at the $60 billion business. —Sydney Lake Office autocrats. Narcissistic leaders are more likely to resist work-from-home and hybrid schedules as they seek to wield their influence in person, a new Wharton study found. —Claire Zillman