I've been going to Disney World my whole life — and even worked there for two years — so I've been to a lot of the restaurants on the property. There are so many amazing dining experiences throughout the parks, resorts, and even Disney Springs for a range of budgets, group sizes, and preferences. After spending way too much money on my food adventures, I've compiled a list of my favorite restaurants at Disney World. Crystal Palace makes me feel like a kid again Crystal Palace is located right off Main Street, USA, in Magic Kingdom, and features large windows offering beautiful views of Cinderella Castle. The food is an all-you-can-eat buffet. I've had breakfast and dinner here and enjoyed both experiences. During the meal, characters like Winnie the Pooh, Eeyore, Tigger, and Piglet go table to table to meet diners. It's so pure seeing everyone meet their favorite childhood characters, who also invite the kids to prance around the restaurant in a parade. Chef Art Smith's Homecomin' is by far my favorite restaurant at Disney Springs The food and drinks at Chef Art Smith's Homecomin' are out of this world — especially if you're looking for classic Southern-style cooking. The eatery serves biscuits and gravy, chicken and dumplings, mac and cheese, mashed potatoes, and so many variations of the best fried chicken I've ever had — I'm not exaggerating. Plus, there are several different flavors of moonshine on the menu. Whispering Canyon Cafe is so much fun for a steal of a price Whispering Canyon Cafe in the Wilderness Lodge serves affordable comfort food like skillets, burgers, pulled pork, loaded nachos, and more. On top of the tasty food, the servers are absolutely hilarious and may just have you cackling the entire time. I don't want to give away too much, but if you decide to go, you should definitely ask for the ketchup for a surprise. My dining experience has been different every time I've been here, which always makes me want to go back. California Grill is expensive, but it's worth the splurge at least once I had the best dining experience of my life at California Grill. I've only gone once because it's very expensive — but the service, cuisine, and experience are incredible. The restaurant is on the top floor of the Contemporary Resort and has floor-to-ceiling windows overlooking the Seven Seas Lagoon and Magic Kingdom. If you go to dinner around the time of the Magic Kingdom fireworks show, you can watch it while you enjoy your meal. There's an even better view available from the restaurant's balcony. I believe every Disney fan should experience a meal here at least once. Ale and Compass serves my favorite breakfast at Disney World Ale and Compass is located in the Yacht Club Resort, and every time I've eaten there, I've been blown away by how great the food is. The salted-caramel-apple French toast is by far my favorite breakfast dish on Disney property. For dinner, I love the shrimp pasta, half chicken, and Angus strip steak. Each meal leaves me wanting to come back to try more. I know that I'll never be disappointed by a dish served here. I still dream about the food at Ohana Ohana is located in the Polynesian Resort and serves all-you-can-eat, family-style fare for breakfast and dinner. It's one of the more expensive restaurants on this list, but I'm confident it's worth the price. There are typically three courses at dinner, starting with an appetizer of mixed-green salad and bread. The main course includes chicken wings, pork dumplings, and a noodle skillet with beef and shrimp. For dessert, enjoy the restaurant's famous bread pudding à la mode. The Polynesian is my favorite Disney resort, so I love the environment of Ohana. There are live singers walking around playing the ukulele and floor-to-ceiling windows that offer gorgeous views of Magic Kingdom. I always have a craving for the food at Ohana, especially the noodles. Sci-Fi Dine-in transports you to a 1950s drive-in theater Sci-Fi Dine-in at Hollywood Studios is unlike anything I've ever experienced. Diners sit in a car facing a huge screen showing scenes from different black-and-white sci-fi movies. Menu items include onion rings, chicken fingers, burgers, and pasta. There is also a wide variety of specialty milkshakes available. The eatery's simple food isn't exactly top-of-the-line, but it's not bad for a moderately priced meal. I've dined at Grand Floridian Cafe many times, and every meal has been delicious I've been to the Grand Floridian Cafe for breakfast, brunch, lunch, and dinner — I've loved my food every time. I recommend the French onion soup, lobster burger, omelet, and brioche French toast. The complimentary biscuits with orange butter that come with meals are great, too. It's also a great bang for your buck. The restaurant is located inside the Grand Floridian Resort, one of the deluxe resorts on the property. I'd say the restaurant's prices are fairly affordable given the area's high prices and the eatery's elevated atmosphere. I love meeting characters while dining at Garden Grill Garden Grill at Epcot provides views of the ride Living With the Land ride and character dining with Mickey, Chip, and Dale. It's always fun because you never know what to expect from those chipmunks. The food is served family-style and is all-you-can-eat. It's similar to a Thanksgiving feast, with turkey, gravy, beef, mashed potatoes, stuffing, mac and cheese, salad, and a berry shortcake. I love the food, and it will get you stuffed at a reasonable price. Be Our Guest transports me into my favorite Disney movie Growing up, I was always the biggest "Beauty and the Beast" fan, so naturally, Disney's Be Our Guest is one of my favorite restaurants. It's another pricey spot best saved for special occasions, but a meal here is worth the splurge for me. The restaurant transports you right into the movie. The main dining area is modeled after the ballroom at the Beast's castle. There's also a West Wing room with the iconic red rose. At dinner, you also have the opportunity to meet the Beast, which is fun since the character doesn't appear often otherwise at Disney World. Dinner is a three-course, prix-fixe menu with a selection of appetizers, entrées, and desserts. You can even order "the gray stuff" from the movie for dessert, which is definitely delicious in real life. You can watch your food being cooked at Teppen Edo Teppen Edo, located in the Japan Pavilion at Epcot, serves mouth-wateringly good food. The chefs prepare the Japanese-inspired cuisine right in front of you. You can choose from steak, chicken, seafood, or vegan options, served with noodles or rice. There are also different sides, including sushi and an array of vegetables. The food is out-of-this-world good, and the chefs keep you entertained the whole time. Hoop-Dee-Doo Musical Revue is my all-time favorite restaurant at Disney World I saved the best for last. Hoop-Dee-Doo Musical Revue is my all-time favorite dining experience at Disney World because of its food, show, energy, and location. The dinner theater is located at Fort Wilderness campgrounds and serves an all-you-can-eat, family-style meal with three different courses. My favorite parts of the meal are the fried chicken, mac and cheese, strawberry shortcake, and endless sweet tea and sangria. While you eat, a musical show is happening all around you — and it involves heavy crowd participation. It's super entertaining, and I'm always left laughing until my stomach hurts. This story was originally published on June 1, 2022, and most recently updated on June 30, 2026.