Wendy’s, the burger chain that asked “Where’s the beef?” and brought the Baconator to burger lovers worldwide, is getting grilled in its returns. The chain, which boasts a market cap of $1.62 billion, is losing customers, closing down stores, and seeing consecutive declining sales—so much so that billionaire activist investor Nelson Peltz may be preparing to take Wendy’s private as it struggles to get customers through the door. “Traffic is down, our value proposition has slipped, and franchisee economics are under pressure,” Wendy’s CEO Bob Wright told investors on Wendy’s latest earnings call. “We can’t just do what we’ve always done better. We do have to innovate.” Peltz’s Trian Fund Management has assembled a consortium that could potentially submit an offer to take Wendy’s private in the coming weeks, according to reports from the Financial Times and Reuters. The group is expected to include Abu Dhabi-based BlueFive Capital and Flynn Group, one of the world’s largest restaurant franchise operators and a major Wendy’s franchisee. Peltz has been preparing for a potential takeover as early as February, when Trian said in a regulatory filing that it believed Wendy’s stock was “undervalued” and disclosed the fund was reaching out to possible co-investors about strategic options, including taking the company private. Peltz personally owns roughly a 16.24% stake in Wendy’s while Trian holds roughly 7.85%, which, at over 24% combined, make up Wendy’s largest shareholder. But a potential buyer would inherit a company whose problems extend well beyond its stock price. U.S. same-restaurant sales fell 7% in the second quarter, marking the sixth consecutive quarterly decline, while traffic plunged 12.5%, according to Wendy’s second-quarter results and earnings call on Aug.7. Wendy’s withdrew its 2026 financial outlook and cut its quarterly dividend to 7 cents a share. During the first half of 2026, Wendy’s closed 289 restaurants in the U.S., and that may not be the end of it. “I’m sure there will be additional closures,” Wright told analysts. Part of the problem is that Wendy’s has experienced losses in the quick-service burger category for 17 straight months. Wendy’s no longer is something “different” A portion of the traffic decline came as Wendy’s pulled back on discounting and reduced or eliminated breakfast hours at some restaurants, CFO Steve Cirulis told analysts on the company’s second-quarter earnings call. Wendy’s has also historically positioned itself as a higher-quality burger chain, but Wright acknowledged that decisions made in the interest of cost and efficiency had eroded some of the food quality that historically differentiated the brand. That traffic decline was partially offset by a 5.6% increase in average check during the second quarter, according to Cirulis. This is contrary to Wendy’s U.S. President Pete Suerken’s commentary in Fortune from May, in which he argued that the chain’s “fresh, never-frozen” beef and its complicated supply chain (which relies on frequent deliveries, localized sourcing and temperature-controlled shipping) give Wendy’s a competitive advantage that rivals can’t quickly replicate. “The things that make you different are the things people remember,” Suerken wrote. But now, Wright says Wendy’s has drifted from some of those qualities, telling investors that decisions made in the interest of cost and efficiency had degraded some of the food quality that set the chain apart. Wendy’s marketing hasn’t translated into traffic Marketing hasn’t provided the answer either. Wright said Wendy’s had become “over-reliant on a calendar of one-off promotions and collaborations” rather than telling a consistent story about the brand. Its new chicken sandwich platform and Minions & Monsters movie collaboration failed to deliver the traffic Wendy’s expected last quarter, Cirulis said on the earnings call. “The real challenge for us has been that underlying traffic trend,” Cirulis said. The dynamic-pricing controversy was another recent marketing headache. Kirk Tanner, who became CEO in 2024 before Wright took over, faced backlash shortly after taking the job over plans to test “dynamic pricing.” In February 2024, Fortune reported that Wendy’s planned to spend $20 million rolling out digital menu boards to its U.S. company-operated restaurants while testing dynamic pricing and AI-enabled menu changes. Comparisons to Uber-style surge pricing quickly followed, and Wendy’s clarified that it had “no plans” to raise prices during peak demand. On the call, Wright also identified inconsistent restaurant operations and pressure on franchisee economics as problems Wendy’s needs to address. U.S. company-operated restaurants outperformed the broader U.S. system on same-restaurant sales by 280 basis points in the latest quarter, a gap that points to franchisee execution as part of the problem. Flynn’s involvement in the potential takeover could add a different kind of experience to the ownership group. Flynn Group is one of Wendy’s largest franchisees, operating about 309 restaurants in the U.S., in addition to its locations in Australia and New Zealand, according to the Financial Times. That would put a major operator with firsthand experience of Wendy’s restaurants alongside Peltz at a time when Wright says franchisee economics are under pressure. Morgan Stanley cut its price target on Wendy’s from $7 to $5.50, just two days before the FT reported on Peltz’s consortium. Following the news, Wendy’s shares jumped 12%.