With the Florida Panthers' three-year stranglehold on NHL Finals spots now cataclysmically over, the Vegas Golden Knights and Carolina Hurricanes are set to duke things out in 2026 for the Holy Grail. Below is our full guide on how to watch Stanley Cup Finals live streams from all corners of the Earth. It's ABC's turn to host the seven-game series in the US, meaning a subscription to ESPN Unlimited or an OTT cable alternative will let you stream all the action online. CBC and Sportsnet are sharing the coverage in Canada, while NHL.TV on DAZN has the rights to show the 2026 Stanley Cup Finals in more than 200 other countries around the world. This is all familiar territory for the likes of Mark Stone, Jack Eichel, Shea Theodore, and Adin Hill, with the core of the Golden Knights' title-winning side from 2023 still producing the goods this postseason. Add the creativity of playoff MVP candidate Mitch Marner and the nous of John Tortorella, who stewarded the Tampa Bay Lightning to glory in 2004, and you can see why the Las Vegas franchise has made it this far. But the Hurricanes have their own fairytale to contend with — the 20th anniversary of their first (and only) Stanley Cup win and Rod Brind'Amour's narrative arc taking him from captain to coach. With the form of Frederik Andersen and Taylor Hall, is destiny on Carolina's side? Or will the Golden Knights set another stone on their path to franchise dynasty less than a decade since it was formed? You can find out by watching Stanley Cup Finals action — no matter where you are in the world thanks to a VPN — with the help of our dedicated guide. How to watch Stanley Cup Finals in the US This year ABC will exclusively carry the main TV feed of the Stanley Cup Finals on TV, while hockey fans will also be able to watch online via the ESPN app. You'll need its comprehensive ESPN Unlimited plan, which includes everything that ABC and the various ESPN channels have to offer (e.g. NFL, NBA, college sports, WWE, La Liga soccer) and costs $30 a month. ESPN Unlimited has everything from ESPN Plus, in addition to all that the ESPN linear networks have to offer, along with some exclusive events not found on broadcast channels. Anybody without an antenna or who has cut the cord can get access to ABC through a month-to-month streaming service like DirecTV. Its MySports plan offers local ABC channels, access to ESPN Unlimited, and an array of premium sports channels including FS1/FS2, NBA TV, NFL Network, Golf Channel, USA, and TNT. It costs $65 a month, with a $15 discount off each of your first two months, all after a five-day free trial for first-time customers. DirecTV's MySports pack carries popular sports channels, from mainstays like ESPN to niche offerings like the ACC Network. Fubo is another comprehensive cord cutting service. Its Sports + News package is the most reasonable way to get access to Stanley Cup Finals streams, costing $56 a month (with a $10 discount for your first month). Its 25+ channel line-up includes ESPN, CBS, and FOX's sports channels. There's the option to try before you buy with its five-day free trial. The new Fubo Sports + News pack is only available in select areas. It combines 20+ major sports channels (including the new ESPN Unlimited) and select local networks (ABC, CBS, and FOX). How to watch Stanley Cup Finals in Canada Sportsnet and CBC will simulcast every game of the 2026 Stanley Cup Finals series on TV in Canada. Although the Stanley Cup Finals will be shown on CBC, the network has confirmed that it will not be broadcasting it for free online through the CBC Gem platform. So to watch on your laptop, smartphone, tablet, or streaming device, you'll need a Sportsnet+ subscription, costing from $30 a month or $250 a year. Right now, there's a discount on its four-month plan, currently down to $90. How to watch Stanley Cup Finals in the UK NHL fans in the UK have two choices for where to watch Golden Knights vs. Hurricanes. The first is NHL.TV on DAZN, which is available to stream on a wide variety of streaming devices and currently costs a one-off fee from £15 for the 2026 Stanley Cup Finals. The second option is the more wide-ranging Premier Sports, which includes live NHL streams among its offerings and costs from £13 a month. How to watch Stanley Cup Finals in other countries NHL.TV on DAZN will show 2026 Stanley Cup Finals live streams in more than 200 countries around the world, from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe. It includes the likes of the UK, Ireland, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, India, and Japan — but not, notably, the USA or Canada. You can see the complete list of countries covered here, with prices varying from region to region. How to watch Stanley Cup Finals from anywhere If you're overseas when the Stanley Cup Finals are on and try to watch the games through your usual NHL streaming service, you'll find that your stream is blocked. Rights restrictions mean that you can't generally watch the platforms you're used to when out of the country — or, at least, not without a VPN. This clever software fools your streaming devices (e.g. laptops, phones, Fire Stick, etc) into thinking it's back at home, allowing you to stream like normal. NordVPN is our recommendation of the best VPN you can download right now. It's brilliant at unlocking streaming services that would otherwise be geo-blocked, combining that with rapid speeds, enhanced cybersecurity and user-friendly apps. Plus, you can give it a try without risk thanks to its no-quibble 30-day money-back guarantee. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. Stanley Cup Finals schedule - Game 1: at Carolina on Tuesday, June 2 — 8 p.m. ET - Game 2: at Carolina on Thursday, June 4 — 8 p.m. ET - Game 3: at Vegas on Saturday, June 6 — 8 p.m. ET - Game 4: at Vegas on Tuesday, June 9 — 8 p.m. ET - *Game 5: at Carolina on Thursday, June 11 — 8 p.m. ET - *Game 6: at Vegas on Sunday, June 14 — 8 p.m. ET - *Game 7: at Carolina on Wednesday, June 17 — 8 p.m. ET *Denotes 'if required' Who is favored to win the Golden Knights vs. Hurricanes? The Hurricanes are the favorite to win the 2026 Stanley Cup according to DraftKings. The sportsbook had Carolina at -155 at the start of the series, with the Vegas Golden Knights at +130. Note: The use of VPNs is illegal in certain countries and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content might constitute a breach of the terms of use for certain services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.