Nvidia came through. At a moment when investors were wondering how much juice the AI trade has left to squeeze, the chip giant smashed already lofty expectations. Chip stocks and the broader tech sector were up sharply on Thursday as traders took in Nvidia's blockbuster results for the second quarter, The AI hardware maker beat on the top and bottom lines as demand for artificial intelligence chips continued to soar. The stock initially dropped as much as 2% following the results, but surged as much as 8% Thursday as investors digested CEO Jensen Huang's comments on the earnings call. The main bullish catalyst appeared to be the firm's estimate that revenue will grow 70% for the coming fiscal year. Huang later added that the firm's growth was largely constrained due to limited supply. It's a remarkable result and a wild outlook for future growth for the world's biggest company, which boasts a market cap of $5.4 trillion. It also comes as the market approaches the four-year mark since the release of ChatGPT, which kickstarted the tech-led bull market that's carried Nvidia to records. "Death, taxes, and Nvidia beats on earnings are three things we can always count on in life," Ryan Detrick, the chief market strategist at Carson Group, wrote in a note on Wednesday. "It is clear the AI wave is far from over, as demand continues to expand more and more." Shares of Nvidia are up 20% for the year accounting for Thursday's gain. The company's latest results gave a boost to the broader US tech sector, which has wavered in recent weeks as investors searched for fresh catalyst to reignite the rally. Here's where US indexes stood shortly after the opening bell: - S&P 500: 7,701.36, up 0.33% - Dow Jones Industrial Average: 53,502.75, up 0.07% (+38.87 points) - Nasdaq 100: 29,447.85, up 0.76% Nvidia's earnings were strong enough to help other chipmakers as investor sentiment brightened. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index rose 1%, putting the index up 63% for the year. Here were the most notable movers in the chips and memory sectors: - Marvell: +1% - TSM: +1% - Intel: +2% - Broadcom: +3% - ARM Holdings: +5% - SK Hynix: +3% - Roundhill Memory ETF: +1% Memory stocks, another major leg of the AI trade that endured a sharp correction this summer, rallied as Nvidia commented on the memory supply bottleneck during the investor call. Huang said the firm's ability to secure High Bandwidth Memory would largely determine shipping volumes going forward. The market is breathing a collective sigh of relief, given investors' fears about the sustainability of AI demand and, crucially, whether the billions tech giants are spending on AI will all be worth it in the long run. "This report is less about Nvidia and more of a capex event. It's the clearest read anyone gets on whether AI infrastructure spending accelerates into 2027, and that flows through memory, foundry, packaging, and power just as much as compute," Nick Frasse, a thematic ETFs product manager at VanEck, said. The latest reaction from investors also marks the first quarter in a year since Nvidia's stock gained after posting earnings, with the chip giant having slid into the red on its last four quarterly reports despite beating estimates. Shares are on track for their strongest post-earnings day since May 2024, according to an analysis from Bespoke Investment. Nvidia shares are often volatile in the days following its earnings reports, with investors frequently interpreting results as good, but not good enough. Investors' focus will now turn to the Federal Reserve chair Kevin Warsh's Jackson Hole speech, with the central bank chief potentially giving the market more guidance on how officials are thinking about macro data to inform future interest rate decisions.