The US government sold 30-year bonds at the highest interest rate in a quarter century, a testament to investors’ demand for greater compensation to finance the nation’s growing deficit. The yield at the $25 billion sale Thursday came in at 5.216%, the most since 2001, even as a drop in oil prices supported US debt in secondary-market trading. The sale, which was met with decent demand, follows the Treasury Department’s 10-year auction a day earlier that drew the highest financing cost at that tenor since 2007. It’s a headache for President Donald Trump and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent ahead of midterm elections in November. Lofty government financing costs are already feeding through to the broader economy, after years of elevated inflation and government spending. “Investors are being asked to absorb a growing supply of government debt globally at a time when deficits remain large, inflation uncertainty persists” and the Federal Reserve is no longer a major buyer, said Michal Stanczyk, portfolio manager for the global fixed income team at Allspring Global Investments. “If investors continue demanding greater compensation for inflation and fiscal risks, long-term yields could move higher and away from 5% even if Treasury auctions remain well covered,” he said. The Treasury’s concern appeared to be on show last week when it tweaked its debt-sales guidance in a way that opened the door to potential cuts to long bond supply. Meanwhile, investors are still not rushing to lock in yields at multi-decade highs, signaling a collective wariness that the selloff may not be over. Representatives for the Treasury didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. Long-term yields surged past 5% this year on investor concerns that a rise in energy prices — tied to war in the Middle East — will boost cost pressures, forcing the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates elevated for years to come. That’s on top of heightened Treasury supply from years of fiscal deficits, a sudden ramp-up of corporate borrowing to fund the artificial-intelligence boom, and waning demand from traditional buyers of long-dated bonds. Treasury yields are the center of the US financial universe, serving as the benchmark for everything from corporate debt to housing loans. Last week, the average for a 30-year fixed mortgage increased to 6.69%, the highest since July 2025. Meanwhile, interest on the public debt continues to be a key driver of the nation’s budget deficit. For the fiscal year to date, the tally is $1.17 trillion — a 15% increase, thanks in part to higher yields on Treasuries. Fitch Ratings kept its AA+ rating on the US credit profile on Thursday, while warning that the nation’s fiscal deficit relative to the size of the economy would widen in 2026, driven by tax cuts and tariff rebates. The yield at Thursday’s 30-year sale was a little above the prevailing level seen in the market before the 1 p.m. bidding deadline in New York, a sign that demand slightly lagged expectations. The bid-to-cover ratio — which measures the amount of investor orders versus the amount on offer — was 2.39, in line with the 2.36 average for the past six comparable auctions. “While there are certainly some headwinds for the long-end, strong supply absorption this week suggests that demand is there — just at a price,” Gennadiy Goldberg, head of US interest rates strategy at TD Securities, said. The 5.216% borrowing rate is the highest since the Treasury axed the long bond in 2001. The decision, which was infamously leaked to Goldman Sachs traders before the public announcement, was reversed in 2005. Today’s circumstances could scarcely be more different. Back then, bond investors were enjoying the spoils of a multi-decade bull market. A series of federal budget surpluses had even fueled market concern that the supply of US government debt was too low. Nowadays, the amount of Treasuries outstanding is ten times larger and growing fast, having doubled since 2018 to around $31 trillion. And as traditional sources of demand have moved away from Treasuries, private market participants have stepped in — demanding juicier yields in the process. “As the market becomes increasingly reliant on price-sensitive investors, the same amount of Treasury supply may require a larger yield concession to clear,” wrote a Barclays Plc team led by Demi Hu. Yields on 30-year bonds held steady at 5.22% in early Asian trading after falling around four basis points on Thursday, when lower oil prices and tame producer price data prompted traders to pare back Fed rate-hike bets. They now see a roughly 35% chance of a move in September, from roughly 50% earlier this week. To Matt Wrzesniewsky, head of fixed income client portfolio management at Vanguard, elevated yields are enticing as the market awaits the next round of employment and inflation data due ahead of the Fed’s next meeting. These lofty yields give “people another bite at the apple,” he said. Vanguard expects the 10-year yield to hold in a range of 4.25% to 4.75%, increasing interest rate exposure in portfolios through that tenor. Wrzesniewsky said the firm prefers the middle maturities over the 30-year bond. Guidance Tweak The future size of long-bond sales has been the subject of debate over the last week, after Treasury officials made an unanticipated tweak to their latest quarterly borrowing policy statement. Instead of saying they are continuing to evaluate potential future “increases” in coupon and floating-rate note sales, as was the case previously, they said they are mulling potential “changes.” Bond investors saw that as raising the possibility that officials will trim sales of the long bonds most under pressure. Even if such a downsizing does not materialize, the market consensus is that when the Treasury does move to bigger fixed-income auctions, it will likely focus on shorter-maturity notes that mature in two- to seven-years. That would be an extension of its current maturity-shortening strategy, where officials have adjusted issuance toward bills which mature in a year or less. Doing so sidesteps the higher yields on longer tenors but increases refinancing risks. “The only clear solution I see, is the US government tightening its budget,” said John Fath, a managing partner at BTG Pactual Asset Management US LLC. “The whole game plan of trying to move issuance up to the front end: You can only do that so much, right? Then it becomes what I would call irresponsible.”