Three years since New York began requiring employers to post pay ranges in their job listings, some companies are still flouting the law — even after receiving warnings from state regulators, according to public records obtained by Business Insider. Prediction marketplace Polymarket, accounting software provider Rillet, advertising firm Icon, and digital-doorman company ButterflyMX are among the employers that continued to post New York jobs without compensation ranges after receiving at least two warnings from the state labor department, Business Insider found. Recent roles posted by these companies without pay information have included a regulatory attorney, a recruiting coordinator, and a founding creative. After Business Insider reached out for comment, ButterflyMX added salary ranges to its job postings and said it was "fully committed to compliance" with New York's law. Among its current job listings is an IT director role with an advertised salary of between $190,000 and $210,000. Polymarket declined to comment. Rillet and Icon didn't respond to requests for comment. All three had job ads posted with no pay information as of this week. The state's pay-transparency law took effect in September 2023 and requires employers with four or more employees to include compensation ranges in online job listings, including ads on platforms such as LinkedIn and Indeed. Members of the public can submit complaints to the New York State Department of Labor alleging violations of the law. Through a records request, Business Insider obtained state records listing complaints that the state investigated and closed between 2023 and April of this year. In more than 200 cases, the state found the complaint to be valid and issued a warning to the employer. None of those employers were fined, according to the state records. The state's law allows penalties of $1,000 for the first offense, $2,000 for the second, and $3,000 for subsequent violations. Among the repeat offenders was organic baby-food maker Little Spoon, to which the state issued three warnings between July 2025 and April 2026. In July of this year, Little Spoon had a job posting for a senior lifecycle marketing manager with no salary range. The company didn't respond to questions, but updated the listing with a salary range of between $125,000 and $145,000 after Business Insider reached out. A spot check of LinkedIn in August found job listings from more than a dozen New York employers that omitted salary information. The roles included senior public relations director, digital marketing manager, project architect, and account executive. One of the employers found to be noncompliant, the AI-for-finance startup Rogo, received a warning from the state in July 2025. The company recently listed six New York jobs without pay ranges on its website and more than 50 on its LinkedIn page. After Business Insider inquired, Rogo added pay ranges to the listings on its website. The LinkedIn ads remained unchanged. A Rogo spokesman declined to comment on "resolved administrative matters" and blamed a third-party technical glitch for its pay ranges not showing up on LinkedIn. New York is one of more than a dozen states that have passed pay-transparency laws in recent years. Colorado, where a law took effect in 2021, has reached six-figure settlements with employers accused of violating it, including Lockheed Martin and healthcare company DaVita. In Washington state, where job applicants can sue for violations, employers such as Target and IHOP regional franchise group Mesk Investment Lakewood have each paid more than $1 million to settle cases over their job listings. New York City's pay disclosure law was passed before New York state's, and it carries much higher potential fines. Covered employers can face civil penalties of up to $250,000 for an uncured first violation after 30 days of being notified, as well as for any subsequent violations. The city's Commission on Human Rights has publicly filed actions against dozens of large employers, including News Corp, Tesla, and Bank of New York Mellon. It hasn't issued any penalties because the businesses it notified came into compliance within the 30 days allowed under the law. Critics of pay-transparency laws argue that they disadvantage many of the employees they purport to help. The Business Council of New York State, an advocacy group, said it may prompt some employers not to recruit talent from New York. "Having learned during the pandemic that many workers can work from anywhere, companies not wishing to disclose pay and benefits to this level of detail will simply locate these workers in other states," the group said prior to the passage of New York State's law. Backers of such legislation say it can benefit employers and workers: Applicants get information that helps them decide whether a job is worth pursuing, which in turn helps employers avoid spending time on candidates whose pay expectations aren't a match. Pay transparency can also help level the playing field for job candidates in salary negotiations. Advocates say that when employers don't disclose pay, it's easier to pay workers in comparable jobs differently and harder for workers to challenge disparities. A 2025 working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research, a nonprofit, concluded that Colorado's pay-transparency law increased the share of job postings with pay information by about 30 percentage points and was linked to wage gains, with no detectable decline in job postings or employment. Cody Walton, a recently laid-off creative and design professional in Texas, is looking for work across the US, and said only about a quarter of the job postings he's come across show pay ranges. Most states don't require them. Walton said that has made it difficult for him to determine whether an opening is a good fit and if relocating is financially feasible. "Cost of living is a huge variable," he said. "I'm playing the guessing game." Walton, 47, said he doesn't want to have to go through multiple rounds of interviews only to end up with an offer he can't afford to accept. Titles and job descriptions vary so much that they often aren't all that revealing. "I'm taking a risk that it's worth my time to interview for a position," he said. Have a tip? Know more? Reach Sarah E. Needleman via email at sneedleman@businessinsider.com or via Signal at saraheneedleman.13. Use a personal email address, a nonwork device, and nonwork WiFi; here's our guide to sharing information securely.