AI isn't just important for investors and corporate profits — it's also a matter of national competitiveness and security. That's a tailwind for a particular set of stocks within the AI trade, according to Morgan Stanley. Governments around the world are intervening in the market to ensure their countries can come out as one of the winners in the AI race, and can control their access to AI without relying on foreign entities. Morgan Stanley calls the theme "AI sovereignty." "AI is becoming strategic infrastructure, pushing governments to favor domestic capacity, trusted partners, and tighter technology controls," a team of the bank's analysts, led by Ariana Salvatore, wrote in an August 19 note. "That means the US government is likely to prioritize control over compute, data, energy, talent, models, and supply chains as the technology transitions to a source of national economic and geopolitical power." This means governments will support the AI infrastructure buildout in their respective countries, while restricting the flow of certain technologies. Essentially, that means more of everything AI-related is necessary. "Sovereign capacity requires additional domestic and regional data centers, greater redundancy, more power generation and transmission, localized cloud and networking infrastructure, and in some cases, parallel technology stacks," the bank said. This reality will continue to benefit some companies in the space, Morgan Stanley said. The bank called AI sovereignty "one of the fastest-growing themes in the market." In the note, the bank laid out a list of stocks that are set to benefit most from the AI sovereignty and localization trend. Below, is the list down of the US-traded stocks that have at least 20% upside to Morgan Stanley's base-case price target. Also listed are the bank's rating for each stock, as well as each one's importance to the AI sovereignty thesis. A "core to thesis" label signifies the highest level of relevance, followed by "significant." SpaceX Ticker: SPCX Materiality: Core to Thesis Market: USA Industry Group: Telecoms Market cap: $1.7 trillion MS Rating: Overweight Target Price: $300 Upside to Base Case: +105% Amkor Technology Ticker: AMKR Materiality: Core to Thesis Market: USA Industry Group: Semiconductors Market cap: $13.9 billion MS Rating: Equal-weight Target Price: $70 Upside to Base Case: +26% ACM Research Ticker: ACMR Materiality: Core to Thesis Market: China Industry Group: Semiconductors Market cap: $4.8 billion MS Rating: Overweight Target Price: $130 Upside to Base Case: +60% Alibaba Group Holding Ticker: BABA Materiality: Significant Market: China Industry Group: Consumer Discretionary Retailing Market cap: $309.9 billion MS Rating: Overweight Target Price: $180 Upside to Base Case: +44% KLA Ticker: KLAC Materiality: Significant Market: USA Industry Group: Semiconductors Market cap: $273.8 billion MS Rating: Overweight Target Price: $253 Upside to Base Case: +21%