Canada should broaden its response to its trade war with the US by going beyond tariffs and targeting fighter jets and coal, said a Canadian premier. "I am encouraging the prime minister to look at non-tariff measures to respond, as well, to what the Americans are trying to do to Canadians," British Columbia Premier David Eby said at a press conference on Tuesday. One potential target: Canada's planned purchase of American F-35 fighter jets. "When your friend kicks you in the back, one of the first rules is you don't then go and buy $12 billion of fighter jets from that person," said Eby at a press conference on Tuesday. Canada had planned to acquire 88 F-35s from US defense giant Lockheed Martin, but Carney put the procurement under review shortly after taking office in March 2025. Eby's other potential pressure point is American thermal coal. American thermal coal is shipped through British Columbia to the Westshore terminal near Vancouver, a key export route for US coal producers. Eby said Ottawa should consider additional export tariffs or taxes on those shipments. "We should be having a public discussion," he said. "Should we be buying those fighter jets from the United States? In my opinion, the answer is absolutely not." The proposals come as the US-Canada trade relationship deteriorates sharply. Canada is one of the US's largest trading partners, with about $870 billion in goods and services traded between the two countries in 2025. More of Business Insider's coverage of Canada Trade negotiations broke down last week, and new 50% US tariffs on about $20 billion of Canadian imports took effect Saturday. On Monday, Trump also said that tariffs on Canadian vehicles, auto parts, and steel would rise to 50% on January 1. Canada plans dollar-for-dollar retaliation beginning September 8. On Tuesday, Finance Minister François-Philippe Champagne announced tariffs on 27.6 billion Canadian dollars, or about $20 billion, of US imports, including steel, fish, dairy, and electronics. Meanwhile, Carney has highlighted areas where Washington relies on Canada. On Monday, while announcing an $8.2 billion contract for six Canadian Coast Guard icebreakers, Carney pointed to the vessels as an example of one of the "many, many, many things" the US needs from Canada.