Bond yields have spiked this summer alongside a rise in jitters about inflation, and markets are on edge even as the Treasury intervenes to push bonds lower. Jeremy Siegel says there's no reason to panic. The Wharton professor said on Monday that yields at their current levels aren't a dire sign for the broader market. News on Monday that the Treasury could dip into its $1 trillion General Account to fund more bond purchases sent long-dated bond yields lower. The 10-year Treasury yield dipped 3 basis points to 4.7%, and the 30-year yield fell 4 basis points to 5.2%. Siegel, though, isn't concerned about the volatility in the bond market. He told CNBC that he sees the potential for a bullish market catalyst on Friday when Fed chair Kevin Warsh takes the podium at the annual Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium, an event that investors will be watching closely. Importantly, he said there's one specific thing Warsh can discuss that markets would respond favorably to. That would be the specific data points the Fed is looking at to make monetary policy decisions. "What criteria are you looking at? Are you looking at the five-year inflation expectations? Are you looking at the Fed funds futures market? What criteria are important to you? I do think that's the right function for the Fed to reveal to the market," Siegel noted. "And if Wash does that, I think we could get a big rally there on Friday." Siegel's fairly bullish outlook is a shift from where he stood just a month ago. In July, he pointed out that bond yields were reaching levels that historically had posed challenges for stocks and could be a potential threat, particularly if the 10-year inflation-adjusted Treasury yield continued rising. However, that yield has ticked down since then, which may be helping fuel Siegel's more optimistic take on how stocks may be impacted by these bond yield movements. In his comments on Monday, he also said that he expects this week's Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) report to be relatively benign. Conversely, Siegel said there's also room for Warsh's Jackson Hole speech to fall short of what the market is hoping to hear. "I think if Kevin disappoints on Friday and gives a kind of a bland, not informational speech, the market could begin to test again," he said. "One could even say there was a tiny mini test when the 30-year poked above that 5% point. I think that this Friday speech is something we'll keep our eyes on." Siegel added that investors will also be listening closely to hear if Warsh and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent have been communicating about the latest interventions in the bond market.