Dimitri Semenikhin is the trader who kicked off the last year's short-squeeze in Beyond Meat stock, but these days, he's taking a more bearish view of a trio of AI infrastructure stocks. Semenikhin wrote on X this week that he's betting against Neibus Group, Advanced Micro Devices, and Bloom Energy. "Right now, built into the valuations are near certainty-level assumptions that demand will keep growing from what is currently projected and that the levels of power needed for all of this compute will be astronomically higher than they are now, increasing reliance on hardware," Semenikhin told Business Insider in an interview. He noted that he previously held a long position in Nebius, a company that provides full-stack AI infrastructure and cloud computing services. While he doesn't regard it as a bad company, he maintains that it doesn't make sense as an investment right now while hype is soaring. "The AI supply chain has gone simply out of control, similarly to the hype that was happening around the build out of the internet infrastructure and web layers," Semenikhin said. "I'm sure we'll end up using more and more AI systems but it's likely they will become lighter and trigger less power reliance not than current use, but than currently projected in the future." All three of the AI stocks Semenikhin is betting against have performed extremely well in 2026. Nebius us up 167%, Advanced Micro Devices has gained 121%, and Bloom Energy has surged 202%. Bloom, primarily a fuel-cell energy producer, has emerged as a favorite of the AI trade this year. Filings show it's a top holding in the hedge fund founded by former OpenAI researcher Leopold Aschenbrenner, which helped spark momentum for Bloom Energy stock early in the year. Semenikhin said he's also not swayed by the fact that AMD smashed Wall Street's expectations for first-quarter earnings, prompting many analysts to rush to raise their price targets. The stellar growth of the market's AI leaders is partly why Semenikhin is betting against them. While he maintains a dim view of the broader sector, he sees these three names as the most logical shorts given their enormous gains in a short period of time. "I think all of the hardware and infrastructure related part of the AI trade are currently overvalued, however smaller names experience wilder swings which is why I didn't include them in the short," Semenikhin added.