The era of buying crypto on social media has arrived. Crypto payments company MoonPay announced Monday that it launched PayBox, its AI-enabled payment and wallet tool, inside Grok, X’s native chatbot. The service is available globally and lets people carry out a variety of crypto transactions across different blockchain networks. MoonPay’s Grok launch reflects a broader push to turn AI chatbots from tools that answer questions into tools that can carry out financial tasks. Over the past two years, crypto and payments companies, including Coinbase, Stripe, Visa, and Mastercard have announced initiatives that let users delegate tasks ranging from small online payments and shopping to buying crypto and moving money to AI agents. In the case of PayBox, users will also be able to use Kamino, a Solana-based crypto lending platform, to earn yield on USDC, the dollar-pegged stablecoin issued by Circle. The application also allows users to carry out non-crypto activities, such as asking Grok to book flights or make restaurant reservations. “Grok prepares the transaction. The user approves it with a passkey. The money moves,” MoonPay said in a press release. Monday’s announcement comes days after MoonPay added a crypto lending feature that lets eligible users manage crypto loans and deposits through ChatGPT or Claude. The integration is limited to users outside the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Australia. In July, the company introduced a platform for businesses and institutions to trade and move digital assets across more than 200 blockchain networks. Five months earlier, MoonPay also released developer tools that let AI agents independently manage wallets and trade crypto. The integration of AI payment tools into X is perhaps expected since the platform’s owner, Elon Musk, is a cofounder of PayPal, and has long sought to expand the use of crypto and digital money. The agent race So-called agentic commerce, which describes using bots for shopping, has been gaining traction in recent months as more companies build tools to help AI agents search, shop and pay on users’ behalf. In May 2025, Coinbase announced x402, a protocol that lets AI agents pay for online services using stablecoins. Stripe followed in December with its Agentic Commerce Suite, which gives businesses tools to sell through AI agents. In May, Circle launched Circle Agent Stack, a set of wallets and payment tools that lets AI agents hold and spend USDC within preset rules. The period also coincided with a broader push in finance toward agentic commerce. In April 2025, payments network Visa launched Intelligent Commerce, an initiative designed to let AI agents search for products and make purchases using tokenized payment credentials rather than consumers’ card numbers. That same month, Mastercard introduced Agent Pay, a service that allows verified AI agents to make purchases within rules set by customers.