I spent nearly 10 years as a flight attendant for the now-grounded Ukraine International Airlines, flying up to 12 hours to destinations across Europe, Asia, and North America. The job gave me a firsthand look at nearly everything that goes on behind the scenes in commercial air travel. Passengers often see the glamorous side of the job — sightseeing during overnights and traveling for free anytime I want. And while these are certainly some of the best perks, they don't always reflect what life as a flight attendant is actually like. There were less ritzy realities: constant jet lag, hours on my feet, sharing hotel rooms, and strict beauty standards governing everything from my makeup and hair to my nails and body size. While my airline shut down operations shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, I left the role in 2021 during the COVID-19 pandemic and have since moved to Canada, where I work as a journalist. Now, on the other side of the industry, I still think about what I wish people knew about being a flight attendant. Here are 10 things passengers frequently misunderstand about the job. My pay fluctuated every month. Aircraft maintenance and weather disruptions meant my paycheck fluctuated month to month. UIA flight attendants had a base rate covering pre-flight briefings, boarding, and training days, but our average rate was highest once wheels were up. And on international flights — like a same-day trip to and from Rome — we got $50 per diem. If a delay pushed our return past midnight into a second calendar day, we were paid that per diem twice. However, if a flight was canceled before pushback, I walked away having earned almost nothing. I did get extra daily pay during international overnights, as well as a bonus for the extra workload when I was on a three-person cabin crew with more than 100 passengers. Overall, I made between $1,000 and $1,500 a month, far below the pay of similarly senior flight attendants at many other Western airlines, especially in the US, where they can make six figures a year. But my salary was good compared to the rest of Ukraine, where the average monthly pay was about $500 pre-war. I could fly for free, but only if a seat was open. Everyone assumes flight attendants fly around the world for free whenever we want, but my personal off-duty travel was a total gamble. While I had a few confirmed-seat tickets a year, everything else was strictly standby, meaning I could only fly for free if there was a seat open, and I still usually paid taxes and fees. I could see flight loads in advance to gauge whether I'd get on the flight, but I couldn't predict last-minute bookings or long standby lists. I've spent so many days off sitting at the gate with my bags packed just to watch the plane take off without me because paying passengers always came first. This has led to unexpected overnights in foreign cities and vacations getting cut short. My family members got discounted tickets under those exact same nerve-racking rules. But when things worked out, I was giddy with excitement, and I visited places I never would have otherwise. Among my favorite trips were to Spain, Montenegro, and Egypt. I sometimes had to share hotel rooms. Passengers picture every crew member relaxing in their own private hotel rooms during overnights — and that's largely true — but UIA operated differently from many other major airlines. While pilots always got their own separate rooms, flight attendants had to share. This meant I was often bunking with someone I'd only met hours earlier. It was weird at first, but, at the time, I didn't know other airlines gave crew members individual rooms, so I adapted to it. The schedule also listed who my roommate would be weeks in advance. Once I built up seniority, however, I earned a unique perk: Whenever we had an uneven number of crew members on a trip, I got the single room to myself. I had to follow strict beauty rules. There was an unspoken appearance check before every flight to ensure I met the airline's strict hair, makeup, and uniform standards. For example, I had to maintain clear skin, manicured nails, a slim figure, and a neat and tidy bun. I eventually chopped my hair into a bob to make it easier to style. I rarely flew with people I already knew. When passengers saw my crew laughing together in the galley, they often assumed we had known each other for years. That's far from the truth. More often than not, I'd walk into the plane without knowing a single person on the crew, including the pilots. When I first started, that threw me off. But turning total strangers into a tight, seamlessly functioning crew at 35,000 feet in under 10 minutes — especially once I was promoted to senior flight attendant — became a superpower. I always packed my own meals. Flight attendants were usually served business-class meals, and our captains and first officers were required to eat different dishes to prevent simultaneous food poisoning. Still, I quickly learned to pack my own home-cooked meals instead. At high altitude, dull taste buds often force catering companies to load plane food with higher-than-usual amounts of salt and fat. Eating that daily wrecked my energy. I paired my own food with water throughout the flight, completely skipping coffee, tea, and soda to survive the desert-dry cabin air. We are busy even when passengers are asleep. Night flights were never my personal favorite, but there was a quiet magic to a darkened cabin once service finished. While passengers slept under dimmed lights, my crew and I were constantly on the move, including keeping the washrooms clean and safe, assisting passengers with restless kids, prepping for the next meal service, and handling unexpected turbulence or medical emergencies. I was also managing complex logistics behind the scenes. If passengers had short connections, I passed their information to the pilots, who alerted ground staff to fast-track them when our doors opened. I also memorized specialized stroller rules and led my team in communication protocols for blind or deaf passengers. My plane's rest area was four seats behind a heavy curtain. Flying on aircraft like the Boeing 767, we didn't have the fancy hidden overhead bedrooms that some newer planes have today. My crew's secret rest room was just four seats in premium economy enclosed by a heavy curtain. Sometimes, I'd get lucky and snag an empty business-class seat. I bought my travel gear at discount stores open only to crew members. While many airports worldwide offered discounts to pilots and flight attendants in their shops and restaurants, some have dedicated crew-only stores where I bought discounted cosmetics, treats, and bags. Tucked away from the public and strictly requiring a valid crew ID, the shop in Brussels Airport was my favorite. I bought heavy-duty travel luggage, as well as authentic Belgian chocolates for my family. International overnights were not always long enough to go sightseeing. Many people assume flight attendants are partying nonstop or spending our overnights exploring new cities. In reality, I was battling jet lag and sometimes only had enough time to eat, shower, and sleep before getting ready for the next day's long-haul flight. I had some longer overnights, my favorite being New York City. I loved quick sightseeing with the crew, like finding Carrie Bradshaw's apartment or running to Costco with a shared shopping list. We'd even grab a rotisserie chicken to split, which was our favorite hack to save money. Ukraine International Airlines did not respond to a request for comment.