Thanks to its ancient ruins, picturesque beaches, and incredible food, Greece is one of the top tourist destinations in the world. I was born in Athens and now split my year living between the US and Greece, so I've spent plenty of time in the beautiful European country. Here are a few things I think tourists should know before visiting. There's so much more to see in Greece than the popular islands and attractions. It seems like everyone visits Mykonos, Santorini, and maybe Paros, but Greece has over 200 inhabited islands. Plus, many of them are more budget-friendly to visit than the popular spots. I recommend looking into places like Kimolos, Astypalaia, Paxoi (also known as Paxos and Paxi), or Folegandros. They feel like hidden gems to me. The Greek mainland is also beautiful. There's a lot to see there, from UNESCO World Heritage Sites at Delphi and Meteora and the turquoise waters of the Peloponnese to the stunning mountains and villages of Epirus. Also, tourists who just swing by Athens just to check the famous Acropolis off their list are missing out. I've always found this city to be one of the liveliest in the world. It's worth checking out Athens' great nightlife, restaurants, museums and cool neighborhoods like Plaka, Exarcheia, Psyrri, and Pangrati. You don't need to tip 15% to 20% on every bill. Greek servers and hospitality workers typically rely on standard, gaurunteed hourly wages, so there isn't the same tipping culture here as there is in the US. For example, it's common to tip 15% or 20% on restaurant bills in the US, but that's not expected here. I normally just round up the bill or leave a couple of euros on the table as a tip unless I had exceptional service or was dining at a more formal or tourist-oriented restaurant. Slow down and take Sundays off. Greeks have a pretty relaxed relationship with time — locals often arrive late to events and stores may open half an hour after they said they would. Service in Greece can seem slow to people from more fast-paced places, especially on the quieter islands. A lot of stores and supermarkets are also closed on Sundays, even in Athens. I know this can be annoying at times if you're used to having 24/7 access to things back home, but I recommend just enjoying the slower pace of life while you're in Greece. Don't try to visit too many islands on one trip. So many people ask me if they can fit four or even five islands into a seven-day trip, and I never recommend it. It's better to take your time exploring Greece and enjoy each destination for at least a couple of days. Half the joy of being on the Greek islands is getting to destress. If you're hopping from ferry to ferry and running around to cover the highlights, you'll miss out on the best parts of the country. Be sensitive about natural disasters. Like other places around the world, there have been more and more devestating wildfires in Greece over the past few years. I never thought I'd have to say this, but please be sensitive if you're in the country during this time or posting about it. Unfortunately, I have seen multiple tourists in the last few years posting about how "pretty" the skies or sunsets are, thanks to the glow from raging wildfires. At a time when a lot of Greek people are wondering if their houses are still standing or their loved ones have gotten to safety, it's a pretty insensitive thing to do. Don't skip out on experiencing a traditional taverna. Athens and other popular Greek destinations now have a lot of upscale restaurants with cuisines from all over the world. There are lots of options, but make sure to eat in a traditional taverna at least once. A taverna is a casual restaurant with family-style dining. Diners can spend hours in them chatting with friends while sharing food paired with some great wine or ouzo (a Greek aperitif). Greek food is more than just gyros. Make sure to check out local specialites. Well-known dishes like gyros and souvlaki are truly delicious, but Greek cuisine is so much more than that. For example, a lot of Greeks start their day with a tiropita (cheese pie) and freddo coffee (a popular local espresso drink that's frothy and typically blended with ice and sugar). Each region also has local specialties that I recommend inquiring about. In tavernas, for example, popular menu items include octopus; all kinds of fish; grilled and fried cheeses, like saganaki and halloumi; and side dishes like fava, a creamy spread made with split peas. Learn a few local words. In more tourist-friendly cities, many younger Greek people understand English, but you may run into problems communicating with older folks — especially in more rural areas. Even if a local person can understand you, I think it's worth learning a few simple words and phrases in the local language like "good morning," "thank you," and "how are you?" before your trip. It's always nice when tourists make a little bit of an effort. This story was originally published on April 21, 2024, and most recently updated on June 3, 2026.