With America's debt mounting and oil prices on the rise again, the bond market has been gripped by a sell-off this week. Market jitters were first triggered last week, following Scott Bessent's plan to have the Treasury as much as double its long-dated bond purchases. The move briefly quelled yields, but they rose again as investors feared the government wasn't tackling the big fiscal issues that have been driving yields higher all year. In the days that followed, a flare-up of US-Iran tension has driven oil back within striking distance of $100 per barrel, throwing fuel on inflation fears and recalibrating rate outlooks. The 10-year Treasury yield on Wednesday was about 4.8%, the highest since 2023. From consumer prices to personal finance, here's how the big bond market sell-off could impact your wallet. What it means for your investment account Higher bond yields can present a problem for stocks for a couple of reasons. For one, they offer a compelling alternative to equities. The thinking is, why risk the stock market when you can get a nearly risk-free rate of 5% socking your money into Treasurys. The other reason has to do with higher borrowing costs and credit risk for companies. A higher cost of debt eats into earnings. For companies with shakier balance sheets, rising borrowing costs could threaten the overall health of the company. All of this means one thing: potentially weaker stock returns. The stock market has already shed some of its summer gains as government bonds have convulsed this week, but more volatility could be coming. 5% has been the threshold to watch for the 10-year to know if more pain might be coming for stocks. For stock investors looking to hedge rising yields, BlackRock's top US strategist this week told Business Insider to focus on dividend-paying stocks and quality stocks, defined as shares of companies with stable earnings growth, high free cash flow, strong balance sheets, and strong competitive advantage. Consumers could see higher mortgage rates and a tougher job market It's not just investors who need to know what's going on in the bond market. Higher yields have implications for Main Street, too. The bond market is signaling that it sees higher rates on the horizon for a variety of reasons. For consumers, that's important because it suggests that the Federal Reserve likely won't cut interest rates soon. Chair Kevin Warsh has held rates steady this summer, though they remain historically elevated. Some economists — and Fed governors — expect at least one hike this year. Some banks see as many as three hikes through early 2027. Warsh said in his Jackson Hole keynote address last week that his top priority is taming inflation. According to Marcus Sturdivant Sr., managing member at advisory firm, The ABC Squared, bond market volatility will impact anyone with adjustable rate payments, most likely those dealing with mortgage or auto loans. "The cost of borrowing for Main Street and the requirements to obtain capital will tighten or restrict," he told Business Insider. Treasury yields influence a variety of consumer loan products, and their rise could lead to more expensive mortgage rates, auto loans, credit card rates, and personal loans. However, a silver lining may be higher rates paid on savings accounts. The already-sluggish real estate market in many areas could be poised for a sharper slowdown. Higher mortgage rates mean higher monthly payments. The 30-year mortgage rate edged toward 6.8% this week, pumping up borrowing costs while home prices remain elevated. Higher mortgage rates could also exacerbate the "lock-in effect," with current owners opting to stay put rather than move and buy a new home at higher rates than their current mortgage. Business leaders, meanwhile, might find themselves pinching pennies. The ripple effects of a bond sell-off and high interest rates will mean that it costs more to borrow money, leaving companies with less money to hire workers and offer raises. Job seekers could see a slowdown in an already brutal market.