No more chicken for Amelia Dimoldenberg. After 12 years of hosting "Chicken Shop Date" on YouTube and interviewing musicians, celebrities, and other creators, Dimoldenberg announced that the internet talk show is coming to an end. "I never thought I'd stop Chicken Shop Date," Dimoldenberg wrote in a social media post. "I thought maybe it would be a part of me forever, and in some way it always will, but I feel like it's now time to move on from this adventure and onto a new one." "Chicken Shop Date" has more than 3.4 million subscribers on YouTube and millions of followers on TikTok and Instagram. The British content creator herself has about 3 million Instagram followers. Dimoldenberg's show became an iconic format and one of many new internet-native stops on celebrity press tours. Musicians like Sabrina Carpenter and internet sensation KSI have sat down with Dimoldenberg to answer questions while eating chicken. Her interview with rapper Jack Harlow in 2021 propelled Dimoldenberg's series into the limelight. While classic late-night talk shows are still on the agenda for many stars, shows like "Chicken Shop Date" — as well as podcasts, man-on-the-street interview videos, and viral shows like Sean Evans' "Hot Ones" or Kareem Rahma's "Subway Takes" — have become alternative platforms for reaching fans. Creators like Evans and Rahma have spun off their initial interview shows into bigger franchises. Evans, for instance, worked with Netflix to launch "Hot Ones: Extra Heat" this year. Rahma, meanwhile, launched a long-form documentary-style version of "Keep the Meter Running" in collaboration with YouTube. As the creator economy matures, the creators who make it up are growing up, too. "When I was 17 I had a fantastic idea that I might meet the love of my life on a date in a chicken shop," Dimoldenberg, now in her 30s, said in her Instagram post. "I've spent my entire twenties sitting across from the most incredible people, people I'd always dreamt of meeting." What might come now for Dimoldenberg? She'll be releasing the final episodes of "Chicken Shop Date" soon. She's also been working on scripted content, including developing a romantic comedy film with Amazon and a young adult drama for the BBC. Beyond the show, Dimoldenberg is the founder of Dimz Inc., a creative studio that works with brands on entertaining content, such as red-carpet interviews and events. Creators with massive audiences like Dimoldenberg often have a smorgasbord of options ahead of them, from launching a brand to building a media empire. For creators, a big career shift — and leaving behind the content that made you famous in the first place — can often open more doors if everything goes right.