After customers branded Burger King's chicken nuggets "dry," "rubbery," and "disappointing," the chain decided enough was enough — and gave its smallest chicken offering a big makeover. Released September 1, the new chicken nuggets are crispier than the original nuggets, which were first added to menus in 1985. The recipe has also been updated to include a more flavorful marinade and new packaging, Burger King said. It follows the chain's update to its signature Whopper in February with new box packaging, a new bun, and new "creamier" mayonnaise, in response to customer complaints that the burger — which used to be wrapped in paper — was often squished during transit. In an August earnings call, the company said the updates to the Whopper were paying off. The chain reported that US same-store sales jumped 8.5% year over year in the second quarter, and customers bought about 20% more Whoppers than in the previous period. When I spoke with leadership at Burger King headquarters in Miami in April, chief marketing officer Joel Yashinsky said the chain wasn't focused solely on menu innovation but also on upgrading its existing menu. "We've been really working the last four years to improve the restaurant experience — our operations, our technology in the restaurants, remodeling — and we're also elevating our food," he said. I tried Burger King's new chicken nuggets to see how they stack up against the original version. The first thing I noticed when I ordered the nuggets was that they now came in a cardboard clamshell box. Burger King made a similar update when it revamped the Whopper, but I was still surprised to see the chain introduce new packaging for its nuggets. Burger King previously served its nuggets in paper bags, but I found the new box kept them much warmer during transit. A 10-piece chicken nugget costs $5.19, excluding tax and fees, at my local Burger King in Brooklyn, New York. I thought that was a good deal, considering that the same number of nuggets at McDonald's is $5.79, excluding tax and fees. Right away, the nuggets looked crispier than the original version. The nuggets had a deep golden color and a crisp, batter-like coating that reminded me more of McDonald's chicken nuggets than Burger King's original version. Rather than the breadcrumb-heavy exterior of BK's classic nuggets, this breading was smoother with a slightly puffed texture that gave each piece a more uniform look. The chicken nuggets also looked a little bigger than before and were more unevenly shaped. There were small crumbs of fried breading across the nuggets' surfaces, adding texture to every bite. I liked how the chicken nuggets paired with the chain's dipping sauces. I particularly liked the nuggets with the chain's Zesty sauce, my go-to dip at Burger King. The sauce's creamy, tangy flavor and slight kick of spice cut through the richness of the fried breading without overpowering the chicken. Inside, there wasn't an overwhelming amount of chicken, but the nuggets were moist. While there wasn't as much chicken inside as in some other fast-food nuggets, it was moist and savory with a slight sweetness, while the breading had a peppery taste. Overall, I thought they were an excellent value for the price and, rather than feeling like a side to one of Burger King's burgers, the nuggets could now hold their own as a meal. I preferred the new chicken nuggets to the original. Unlike Burger King's old nuggets, which I found a little too heavily breaded to stand on their own, the new version felt more balanced and satisfying. When I tried the original nuggets — which cost $3.89, excluding tax, for an eight-piece — I thought they worked better as an accompaniment to one of the chain's burgers, but I felt the new nuggets could serve as a meal. I loved how the new version paired with the Zesty sauce, and the smoother, crispier coating let the flavor of the chicken come through more clearly than in the original. Burger King's strategy of upgrading its existing menu worked for the Whopper, and I could see it proving just as successful for the fast-food giant's chicken lineup.