The word "Goldilocks" is meme-ing out in US markets right now. It's a reference to how recent economic data has been neither too cold nor too hot. The labor market and consumer spending have been cooling lately, while inflation has remained relatively mild. For the purposes of keeping interest rates on hold, the recent figures have been just right. It's a big part of the reason why stocks have resumed their ascent to all-time highs. Rate hikes have historically been kryptonite for equities. If they're being delayed — or not coming at all — that removes an overhang and allows the blistering AI trade to do its thing. All sounds good, right? Not so fast. While stock investors are feeling emboldened, bond investors are taking a far more skeptical view of the Goldilocks narrative. Their hesitance can be seen in the 10-year Treasury yield, which is hovering near its highest level since early 2025, up almost 80 basis points from a multiyear low in February. The 30-year yield, meanwhile, reached its highest since 2007 on Monday. The problem isn't simply that yields are rising. It's what their rise could mean for investors counting on bonds to cushion the next stock-market sell-off. Historically, investors have bought US Treasurys in response to equity-market shakiness, pushing bond prices higher and yields lower. That has made government bonds a crucial diversification play capable of blunting portfolio losses. But the ongoing Treasury sell-off — and the pressures driving it — threaten that relationship. If those forces persist during the next bout of stock-market turbulence, investors may be less inclined to seek refuge in Treasurys. After all, it's tough to wrap one's head around buying bonds when there are so many forces pushing their prices lower. What forces, specifically? Let's break down what's happening around the world. (All data compiled by Bloomberg.) - Borrowing costs are expected to rise faster in Japan, the euro zone, Canada, and the UK than in the US over the next year. - Investors are pricing in rate hikes for two-thirds of global swap markets, with South Korea leading the way with an expected increase of 100 basis points. - Traders expect roughly 400 total basis points of rate hikes across seven major markets over the next year. That's all combined to create a rare situation where US fixed-income investors are increasingly focused on foreign central banks. That means the fate of the US bond market — and its ability to provide shelter during the next stock sell-off — will likely hinge on what happens thousands of miles from the Fed. So before you go breaking out your just-right celebratory porridge, remember that this particular revival of Goldilocks for stocks comes with a few dicey caveats worth heeding.