When Stanley Druckenmiller speaks, markets listen. When the legendary trader uses AI to craft his message, investors can't stop talking. Druckenmiller has said he used AI to help write his viral op-ed in the Wall Street Journal this week. In the piece, he criticized Scott Bessent, the US Treasury chief and his former protégé, for ramping up bond buybacks in a bid to drive down Treasury yields. The billionaire investor — who worked with Bessent at George Soros' hedge fund and Fed Chair Kevin Warsh at Duquesne Family Office — told the Journal that he felt "kind of proud" at age 73 to be using AI tools like Claude and ChatGPT, which he compared to using a calculator or a speechwriter. Druckenmiller said he was much better at economics than writing, and defended the op-ed as representative of his views. "These are my ideas and I've been speaking about them for over 15 years, as anyone who knows me knows," he said. Paul Gigot, the Journal's editorial page editor, said in a statement to his own publication that "AI is a fact of modern life" and "nobody can doubt that his op-ed is his genuine opinion." Druckenmiller and The Wall Street Journal didn't immediately respond to requests for comment from Business Insider. Splitting the Street The market wizard's reveal has divided financial commentators on X. Some argued that he should have disclosed his use of AI, and that it detracted from the value of his latest message. Others said Druckenmiller's ideas are what count, and AI writing is the new normal. John Huber, the founder of Saber Capital Management, said in an X post that some people "view AI writing as a form of plagiarism" or "at least disingenuous." Huber added that, particularly in the case of an op-ed, if the "words aren't authentic, they lose at least some of their meaning and author risks losing credibility." Jason Calacanis, an entrepreneur and co-host of the "All-In" podcast, said on X that it was "unforgivable for a public figure to publish an AI-written piece without a clear disclosure in the first sentence." He followed that sentence with a facepalm emoji. "Undermines the entire premise of publishing a thought piece, because we can't tell what's yours and what's the magic black boxes' thoughts," he added. Chamath Palihapitiya, a venture capitalist and one of Calacanis' "All-In" co-hosts, dismissed the idea of an AI disclaimer as "virtue signaling." In another post, he wrote: "If Stan Druckenmiller isn't embarrassed to be a meat proxy, you shouldn't be either." Palihapitiya framed AI chatbots as superior to human writing, and said people shouldn't be precious about the latter approach. "It's like after matches was invented, still celebrating the arduous time to rub two sticks together," he said. "Dumb." Similarly, Joe Weisenthal, a co-host of the "Odd Lots" podcast, questioned X whether human-written copy will be viewed as superior to AI-generated copy in the future. "If one of the world's most successful investors and one of the world's most prestigious outlets have no issue with publishing LLM-generated text, I don't expect this to hold," he wrote. Cullen Roche, the founder of Discipline Funds, said on X that Druckenmiller's piece was consistent with his commentary for decades. He wrote: "Druck's been predicting a crisis in US government bonds for 40 damn years and people think AI created an inauthentic narrative here? :-)" Claudia Sahm, the economist who developed the recession indicator known as the "Sahm Rule," celebrated Druckenmiller's decision not to "waste his time writing up why Bessent was wrong." She called his use of AI the "sickest burn of 2026." Jerry Muller, the author of "The Mind and the Market," poked fun at the discord around Druckenmiller embracing a new writing tool. "1950: leading investor ridiculed for analysis written with BIC ballpoint pen instead of fountain pen," he wrote. "Handwriting experts call foul." This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Insider.