Chip stocks have had a volatile summer, seeing sharp swings amid market rotations and shifting sentiment in the AI narrative, but Bank of America says opportunities are brewing. BofA analyst Vivek Arya wrote on Tuesday that many of the top chip stocks have room to run, even as he sees building volatility that could knock the sector down 10% in the near-term. "Semiconductor demand remains solid, yet three headwinds could cap chip stocks near-term," he wrote in a note to investors. The headwinds Arya sees potentially impacting chip stocks are threefold: macro factors such as rising interest rates and backlash against data centers, "micro" concerns specific to the industry like circular financing, and positioning, with the chips more heavily overweigh in investors' portfolios relative to the broader S&P 500. Other Wall Street analysts are less bullish. JPMorgan recently wrote that chips may be on the verge of a "dead cat bounce" in September, citing technical signals. But Arya's team at BofA maintains that even as a 10% drop for the PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index (SOX) is in the cards, it could present a new entry point for investors to acquire valuable chip stocks at a discount. They say that seasonal factors are compelling, while the SOX semiconductor index looks cheap on the basis of forward PE relative to projected growth in earnings per share through 2028. BofA's team flagged eight chip stocks that they consider to be trading at attractive levels following recent volatility: - Nvidia: +14% year-to-date. - Marvell Technology: +182% year-to-date. - Micron Technology: +225% year-to-date. - Lam Research: +83% year-to-date. - Advanced Micro Devices:+124% year-to-date. - Intel: +137% year-to-date. - Analog Devices: +37% year-to-date. - ON Semiconductor: +33% year-to-date. Often regarded as the leader among semiconductor stocks, Nvidia has been outperformed by smaller peers in 2026. Arya noted that a strong earnings report on Wednesday may not be enough to fully revive the stock, but his team remains bullish on its longer term growth potential. "NVDA keeps posting strong earnings even as its multiple compresses under full positioning," he added. "We see a significant opportunity here for NVDA to run Apple's post-2012 playbook: lifting cash returns from ~50% of FCF today to 75%+." BofA still sees the "pick and shovel" playbook as an effective way to play the next phase of the AI boom. The analysts see the industry shifting in a direction that favors equipment makers due to the growing memory bottleneck. They say this pave the way for two chip stocks in particular to see a fresh rally. "LRCX and MU remain our favorite long-term investments in the fundamental 'picks-and-shovels' layer that can do well across various phases of AI and tech inflections," Arya said.