The Eastern Conference finals have arrived, and this year's best-of-seven series features a Cleveland vs. New York showdown. Keep reading to learn how to watch Cavaliers vs. Knicks live streams. If you don't want to read any further, you can live stream the Eastern Conference Finals through ESPN Unlimited or a live TV streaming package if you're in the US. Below, we'll break down everything you need to know about the streaming services, along with scheduling, venue, and odds for the Cavaliers vs. Knicks series. What channel is Cavaliers vs. Knicks on? Game 1 of the Cavaliers vs. Knicks series will air on ESPN on Tuesday at 8 p.m. ET in the US. Most Eastern Conference Finals games are on ESPN, though this weekend's Game 3 will air on ABC. How to watch Cavaliers vs. Knicks in the US Cord-cutters have a massive selection of services to choose from for live streaming ESPN. The network's direct streaming counterpart is ESPN Unlimited, which offers live streams from all of ESPN's linear networks (plus tons of other content) for $30 a month. ESPN Unlimited has everything from ESPN Plus, in addition to all that the ESPN linear networks have to offer, along with some exclusive events not found on broadcast channels. If you'd prefer a service that carries other networks, DirecTV, Fubo, or Sling TV can help. These are some of the best live TV streaming services we've tested, and they're all available on month-to-month plans, so you can cancel at any time. ESPN and ABC are available in DirecTV's MySports genre pack. It costs $65 a month, but new users can get $20 a month off their first two months after a five-day free trial. MySports offers around 20 channels, including access to ESPN Unlimited. ESPN and ABC are also available in Fubo's Sports + News lineup. It costs $56 a month, but first-time customers can get $10 off their first month after a five-day free trial. Sports + News offers around 28 channels and unlocks access to ESPN Unlimited. Sling TV also carries ESPN in its Sling Essentials and Sling Orange plans. These subscriptions cost $20 a month and $46 a month, respectively. There is also a cheaper short-term version of Sling Orange, starting at $5 a day, which can be a good fit if you're only looking to watch a single game. Just keep in mind that Sling Orange and Sling Essentials don't carry ABC (Sling Select or Sling Blue might have it in your ZIP code, but local channel availability varies by market on Sling). How to watch Cavaliers vs. Knicks from anywhere Long gone are the days when you have to miss out on a game because you're traveling abroad. With the help of a VPN (virtual private network), you can keep up with your usual streaming methods from anywhere. These handy tech tools let you temporarily alter your device's virtual location so that you can access your favorite websites and apps from anywhere. Since the services we've recommended require country-specific payment options, this option will work best for those traveling away from home. NordVPN is the best VPN we've tested recently. It's fast, easy to use, and has a hassle-free 30-day money-back guarantee if you find it's not what you're looking for. You can learn more in our official NordVPN review. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. Eastern Conference Finals Schedule - Game 1 on Tuesday, May 19, at 8 p.m. ET at ESPN - Game 2 on Thursday, May 21, at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN - Game 3 on Saturday, May 23, at 8 p.m. ET on ABC - Game 4 on Monday, May 25, at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN - Game 5 on Wednesday, May 27, at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN - Game 6 on Friday, May 29, at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN - Game 7 on Sunday, May 31, at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN Where will the Cavaliers vs. Knicks take place? Game 1 of the Eastern Conference Finals will be held at Madison Square Garden in New York. Game 2 will also be held in New York, before the series heads to the Rocket Arena in Cleveland for the next two games. Who is favored to win Game 1 of Cavaliers vs. Knicks? The New York Knicks are favored to win the Cavaliers vs. Knicks Game 1 match-up. According to DraftKings (at the time of writing), the Knicks are a 6.5-point favorite and -250 on the moneyline. How much are Cavaliers vs. Knicks tickets? The cheapest remaining original standard tickets for Game 1 of the Cavaliers vs. Knicks series start at $555.60 on Ticketmaster. Resale sites offer slightly cheaper starting prices. On Vivid Seats, ticket listings start at $487 for standing-room-only spots. On StubHub, listings start at $502 for standing-room-only. All prices are correct at the time of writing, but these listings are subject to fluctuation as game time approaches. Note: VPN use is illegal in certain countries, and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content may constitute a breach of the terms of use for some services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.