The battle for the NBA title is underway, and the New York Knicks are squaring off with the San Antonio Spurs in a can't-miss series. We've compiled everything you need to know about Knicks vs. Spurs, including info on where to watch NBA Finals live streams, venues, odds, and a game schedule. If you don't want to read any further, you can live stream the games on ABC through ESPN Unlimited or a live TV service in the US, Prime Video in the UK, and the NBA League Pass in most other countries around the world. Keep reading to learn more about global watch options and other details about the series. Where to watch the NBA Finals in the US The NBA Finals will air on ABC in the US. This means you can live stream the series directly through ESPN Unlimited or on one of the best live TV streaming services we've tested. ESPN Unlimited costs $30 a month and unlocks full live streaming capabilities across ESPN's family of networks, including ESPN on ABC content. ESPN Unlimited has everything from ESPN Plus, in addition to all that the ESPN linear networks have to offer, along with some exclusive events not found on broadcast channels. If you'd prefer a service with other channels, then DirecTV or Fubo might be of interest. These are two of the best ABC-friendly services we've evaluated. DirecTV MySports carries around 20 popular sports networks and unlocks access to ESPN Unlimited. Subscriptions cost $65 a month, but new users can get $15 a month off their first two months after a five-day free trial. ABC is also included in DirecTV's Signature plans. DirecTV's MySports pack carries popular sports channels, from mainstays like ESPN to niche offerings like the ACC Network. Fubo Sports + News features around 29 popular news and sports channels and unlocks access to ESPN Unlimited. Subscriptions cost $56 a month, but you can get $10 off your first month of service after a five-day free trial. ABC is also included in Fubo's Pro and Elite packages. The new Fubo Sports + News pack is only available in select areas. It combines 20+ major sports channels (including the new ESPN Unlimited) and select local networks (ABC, CBS, and FOX). Where to watch the NBA Finals in the UK In the UK, NBA fans can live stream all of the action through Prime Video. Subscriptions start at £8 a month and include all standard Amazon Prime plans (£9 a month). If you haven't had a subscription before, there's usually a pretty generous free trial offer going on, which would cover you for the duration of the finals, plus Prime Day at the end of the month. How to watch the NBA Finals from anywhere NBA Finals live streams are pretty accessible around the world. Prime Video will live stream the Finals in the UK, France, Ireland, Argentina, Spain, Mexico, and several other regions. In most countries outside the US and Canada, you can live stream the games through the NBA League Pass. Subscription prices vary by region. If you find yourself traveling through an area where you're unable to access your usual streaming options, you can still use them with the help of a VPN. Short for virtual private networks, VPNs are handy tech tools that let people temporarily change their virtual locations. A VPN is also a solid way to improve day-to-day cybersecurity and online privacy. Since the services we've highlighted require country-specific payment methods, this option will work best for those who are just traveling abroad at the moment. NordVPN is our top recommendation right now. It's fast, easy to use, and has a 30-day money-back guarantee if you find that it's not what you're looking for. You can learn more about the service in our guide to the best VPNs. From now until June 9, you can use our exclusive code INSIDER for extra savings on one and two-year plans, thanks to a special NordVPN deal. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. NBA Finals schedule - Game 1 on Wednesday, June 3 at 8:30 p.m. ET - Game 2 on Friday, June 5 at 8:30 p.m. ET - Game 3 on Monday, June 8 at 8:30 p.m. ET - Game 4 on Wednesday, June 10 at 8:30 p.m. ET - Game 5 on Saturday, June 13 at 8:30 p.m. ET - Game 6 on Tuesday, June 16 at 8:30 p.m. ET - Game 7 on Friday, June 19 at 8:30 p.m. ET Where will Game 2 of Knicks vs. Spurs take place? The second game of the Knicks vs. Spurs NBA Finals series will be held at the Frost Bank Center in San Antonio. Game 1 also took place in San Antonio, but the series will head to Madison Square Garden in New York for Games 3 and 4. If the series heads to Game 5, the teams will return to San Antonio. Who won Game 1 of the NBA Finals? The New York Knicks won the first game of the NBA Finals on San Antonio turf. The Knicks defeated the Spurs 105-95, thanks to a strong second half. Prior to that, the two teams last faced off at the beginning of March during a regular-season game, which saw the Knicks win 114-89 in New York. Who is favored to win Knicks vs. Spurs? Despite the Game 1 loss, the Spurs are the 6.5-point favorites to win Game 2. According to DraftKings at the time of writing, the Spurs are -230 on the moneyline, while the Knicks are +190. However, the Knicks are the current favorites to win the overall series following their Game 1 road victory. How much are Knicks vs. Spurs tickets? At the time of writing, the cheapest remaining standard admission tickets on Ticketmaster start at $939.45. Resale sites have cheaper starting prices, with the cheapest listings starting at $650 on StubHub and $662 on Vivid Seats (at the time of writing). Overall, the starting prices are lower than those we saw ahead of Game 1. Game 3, which takes the series to New York, is another story. For Game 3, resale listings start at over $8,000 on StubHub and Vivid Seats. Note: VPN use is illegal in certain countries, and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content may constitute a breach of the terms of use for some services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.