The college football regular season returns this month, and the watch options are spread out across more than a dozen networks and streamers. We've combed through them all to identify what you need to know when it comes to how to watch college football, with an emphasis on nationally broadcast games. Some of the top teams to keep an eye on heading into the 2026 season include Ohio State, Oregon, Georgia, Notre Dame, Texas, and Miami. The Indiana Hoosiers, the reigning College Football Playoff National Champions, are also looking to defend their title after defeating the Miami Hurricanes 27-21 in January. As is the case with the NFL, there's no one place where you can watch absolutely every game (even if you have cable, thanks to some streaming exclusive games), but we've identified the services that can help you out the most. Plus, we've highlighted a couple of streaming options that are excellent cable alternatives if you're a cord-cutter looking for a comprehensive live TV option. Below, we've put together everything you need to know about watching college football this season. You can also check out our guide to the best sports streaming services for a detailed breakdown and comparison of each app. How to watch College Football in the US College football is spread across several broadcasters and streaming services. ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, NBC, CBS, CBS Sports Network, SEC Network, ACC Network, ABC, FS1, FOX, the Big Ten Network, the CW, and ESPN Plus (via the ESPN streaming service) are among some of the main ways to watch the games. Of course, you can also catch some games through regional sports networks and other means if you're local. ESPN is your best bet for live streaming ESPN, ABC, ESPN2, ESPNU, ACC Network, SEC Network, and ESPN Plus games, thanks to its ESPN Unlimited streaming service, which costs $32 a month following an ESPN price hike. The refreshed app offers everything there is to watch on ESPN's linear networks and ESPN Plus programming, which will come in handy for streaming-exclusive games. There's also a cheaper ESPN Select tier, which costs $14 a month and is essentially ESPN Plus with a new name. You can learn more in our ESPN streaming service guide. ESPN Unlimited has everything from ESPN Plus, in addition to all that the ESPN linear networks have to offer, along with some exclusive events not found on broadcast channels. If you're only looking to watch a game that's on NBC, you can subscribe to Peacock's Premium Plus tier for $20 There will also be some exclusive Peacock-only games, which are available on all tiers of service. Likewise, if you're only looking to watch a game on CBS, you can subscribe to Paramount Plus. You'll need to opt for the Paramount Plus Premium tier for $14 a month to access CBS live streaming options. Peacock is a convenient streaming source for hit NBC TV shows, Universal movies, and select sports like Sunday Night Football. The service also carries its own slate of original programming. Paramount Plus offers a huge library of on-demand content from Paramount, CBS, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, BET, and MTV. The Premium Plan also includes Showtime and live CBS streaming. More importantly, it removes ads from the on-demand streaming library. If you don't have cable and you're looking for a way to see almost all nationally broadcast games, it's probably time to check out a live TV package. Fubo, YouTube TV, and Sling TV can all do the trick. Fubo will allow you to catch most nationally broadcast games. It carries ABC, NBC, FOX, CBS, CBS Sports Network, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, FS1, SEC Network, ACC Network, Big Ten Network, and more. Subscriptions also unlock access to ESPN Unlimited at no extra cost, which is ideal for ESPN Plus streaming exclusive match-ups. Plans start at $65 a month for the Sports + News package, but new customers can get $10 off their first month after a free trial. If you're looking for even more channels, you can try one of the pricier Pro or Elite plans. The new Fubo Sports + News pack is only available in select areas. It combines 20+ major sports channels (including the new ESPN Unlimited) and select local networks (ABC, CBS, and FOX). YouTube TV is another top-rated live TV service with broad channel coverage. The service carries ABC, FOX, NBC, CBS, CBS Sports Network, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, FS1, SEC Network, ACC Network, and the Big Ten Network, among others. These channels are available in both the Sports plan and Main plan. The YouTube TV Sports plan costs $65 a month, but a limited-time deal will knock your first 12 months down to $55 a month. The YouTube TV Main plan costs $83 a month, but a limited-time deal will discount your first five months down to $68 a month. New customers can access a free trial as well. YouTube TV's main plan carries over 100 channels, ranging from local networks to cable favorites. When it comes to Sling, you'll need to subscribe to the Sling Orange + Blue plan for $61 per month to access ESPN, ESPN2, FS1, and select local channels (like FOX, ABC, and NBC, but not CBS). You can also opt for some sports-centric add-ons, which add things like the SEC Network, the Big Ten Network, truTV, or ESPNU for an additional cost. The service also carries TNT, which came in handy last year during the playoffs. Sling also offers pared-down packages and short-term passes, so you can get channels like ESPN with one $5 Sling Orange day-pass or the $20 a month Sling Essentials package. Sling TV offers some of the best cable channels for $65 or less. There are three different tiers to choose from, plus several sports and entertainment-specific add-ons, but the Orange + Blue combo is the best way to get the most major sports channels. Plus, you can usually get about half off your first month. How to watch College Football from anywhere If you'll be traveling away from home during any big games, you can still keep up with your subscriptions using a VPN (virtual private network). This is a handy tool that enables you to change your electronic device's virtual location so that you can use your usual websites and apps from anywhere. Since the services we've highlighted require US payment methods, this option will work best for Americans traveling abroad. NordVPN is our go-to recommendation due to its easy-to-use interface and hassle-free 30-day money-back guarantee. Check out our NordVPN review for additional details, and keep reading to learn how to use a VPN. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. Note: The use of VPNs is illegal in certain countries, and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content might constitute a breach of the terms of use for certain services. Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.