Roughly three years into the generative AI boom, companies are allocating big budgets for AI tools but struggling to put them to work. The two-year-old startup Unframe has raised $50 million in Series B funding to bridge this gap. The latest round brings total funds to $100 million. The company also said it crossed $100 million in total contract value within a year. As businesses move from AI experimentation to deployment, COO Larissa Schneider said "identifying the right use case" remains a central challenge. Unframe has built a library of different AI tools that it uses to assemble custom systems. These work with different AI models and integrate with a company's internal systems and data. Unframe has been used by commercial real estate firms to analyze lease documents, by retailers to plan promotions, and by airlines to streamline crew schedules, Schneider said. The Series B was led by Highland Europe, and featured participation from existing investors Bessemer, Craft, TLV, Third Point, Cerca, and Vintage. Unframe's customers span industries including financial services, healthcare, and retail, and include commercial real estate firms Cushman & Wakefield and Avison Young, cybersecurity company Armis, and the Swiss publisher NZZ. Customers can test Unframe's AI solutions for free, and pay an annual subscription once they're deployed. Many start with one project before expanding, Schneider said, which is helping to drive a 400% net revenue retention rate — or how much existing customers have increased their spend over time. Unframe has roughly 150 employees, and Schneider said it will use the new funding to expand its product, customer support, and sales teams, and enter new markets. The company is headquartered in Cupertino, with offices in Tel Aviv and Berlin. Companies take various approaches to AI adoption. Unframe competes with prebuilt AI services, consulting firms like Accenture, and companies that choose to develop their own AI systems in-house Unframe's cofounders include Schneider, CEO Shay Levi, and VP of research and development Adi Azarya. The three are veterans of cybersecurity company Noname, which was acquired by Akamai in 2024 for roughly $450 million. Here's a look at the pitch deck Unframe used to raise its $50 million Series B. Slides have been redacted so that the deck can be shared publicly.