He's the self-identified "biggest boss that you've seen thus far." And, apparently, he has a one-bedroom, two-bath private jet equipped with Starlink. During an episode of Complex's "On Display," released on Monday, rapper Rick Ross showed off his hangar (which he calls the "Eagle's Nest"), including a Gulfstream G550. He said he integrated SpaceX's Starlink into the private jet. "It's unbelievable," he said about the satellite internet services. "It's just like you at the crib. I'm on a phone call before I take off, as we take off, the phone call don't stop. FaceTime, whatever it is. Streaming, live, whatever it is." Right now, Starlink is the crown jewel of SpaceX's business. The company has deployed thousands of small satellites in low Earth orbit that beam high-speed internet to far-flung areas of the world — including airspace where jets are flying. It has 12 million subscribers, the company reported earlier this month during its first-ever earnings call. Several airlines have adopted the technology, including American Airlines, Southwest, Virgin Atlantic, Iberia, and Aer Lingus. Big-spending airline travelers, such as YouTuber MrBeast and angel investor Jason Calacanis, have said they would choose a less convenient flight path if the planes are equipped with Starlink tech. They aren't alone. "In fact, we heard from one of our airline customers, shockingly, customers are flying shorter hop flights instead of direct, so that they could ensure that they're on a Starlink-activated flight," SpaceX president Gwynne Shotwell said in her opening remarks on the August call. "They'd never seen this in the business before." For Ross, his internet-linked plane is a centerpiece of his multimillion-dollar stable of transportation options in his hangar in Miami, which is also filled with custom Lamborghinis, Ferraris, and classics like the 1970s Chevy Impala. He said he dreamed about having such a fleet when he was a kid. "I always told myself, once I got the opportunity to, you know what I'm saying, double back, all the shit that I wanted, I was going to get it," he told Complex. Representatives for Ross didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider.