JPMorgan Chase is closing in on a milestone no bank has ever reached. The financial giant was worth roughly $970 billion on Monday morning—a modest stock-market rally away from becoming the first bank in the world with a $1 trillion market cap and a far cry from its $138 billion valuation on December 30, 2005, just before he took over. Last month, JPMorgan posted the highest-ever quarterly profit by a U.S. bank. Getting to $1 trillion would be the latest payoff from a playbook CEO Jamie Dimon has spent two decades refining: maintain enough financial firepower to withstand crises, keep investing when rivals pull back, and use periods of industry turmoil to expand. That combination has repeatedly allowed JPMorgan to go on offense when competitors were under pressure. Dimon has long emphasized what he calls the bank’s “fortress balance sheet,” which helped JPMorgan acquire Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual during the 2008 financial crisis and swoop in to buy First Republic during the regional banking crisis 15 years later. “Best-in-class ability to invest” But JPMorgan’s advantage extends beyond acquisitions. Wells Fargo analyst Mike Mayo wrote in an Aug. 13 note that JPMorgan’s edge is that it can afford to spend heavily on branches, bankers and technology—and then use the growth from those investments to spend even more. That “flywheel” has helped JPMorgan build leading franchises across consumer banking, investment banking, trading and wealth management. Mayo wrote that this “best-in-class ability to invest for superior growth” could help the bank reach a $2 trillion valuation in the next seven to eight years. But the path to $2 trillion isn’t guaranteed. Mayo points out that the past decade did not include what he considers a “real” recession, while unusually buoyant markets have lifted revenues across the industry. JPMorgan is also trading near its peak forward earnings multiple since the financial crisis. That puts more pressure on the bank to keep growing earnings. Mayo estimates that roughly two-thirds of JPMorgan’s increase in market value over the past six years came from earnings per share doubling, while only one-third came from the stock commanding a higher multiple. After Dimon The biggest test of whether JPMorgan’s advantage is truly institutional, however, may come when Dimon leaves. Dimon, 70, has led JPMorgan since 2006, and investors have long attached a “Jamie premium” of 10% to 15% to the bank’s shares. Mayo wrote that maintaining JPMorgan’s culture and management strength will be critical to sustaining its performance and acknowledged the looming succession question. “CEO succession will likely remain a front-and-center topic,” he wrote. The question of who will succeed Dimon is one of corporate America’s longest-running ones, with recently appointed co-presidents Doug Petno and Troy Rohrbaugh seen as the front-runners after Marianne Lake dropped out.