To me, taking a cruise is like watching previews at the movies — you can get an idea of each coming film's plot, aesthetic, and overall vibe, but you'll have to return to the theater to get the full story. I decided this on my first cruise back in 2022. The seven-night voyage aboard Royal Caribbean's Wonder of the Seas stopped at four ports: Roatan, Honduras; Cozumel and Costa Maya, Mexico; and Royal Caribbean's private island in the Bahamas, Perfect Day at CocoCay. Passengers had about seven hours to explore at each stop. For me, it was only enough time to get a small taste of each place, and the first two ports left me wishing I'd had more time to explore. Here's how I spent my hours in Roatan, Honduras, and Cozumel, Mexico. The first port stop was Roatan, where I booked a nature excursion. Roatan is an island off the coast of Honduras, surrounded by one of the largest barrier reefs in the world. I spent my day there on an excursion I booked through Royal Caribbean. We went to Mayan Eden Eco-Park, a nature preserve with hiking trails and wildlife. A tour bus took us from the port to the eco-park, passing through the capital city, Coxen Hole. The street was lined with vibrant buildings and outdoor markets. Passing through so quickly made me wish I could explore the streets on foot. Once we arrived at the park, we stepped inside a butterfly sanctuary. Different species fluttered around the enclosed natural space. Butterfly wings and budding flowers brought vibrant pops of color that contrasted the layers of green leaves. After visiting the butterflies, we spent the next hour or two hiking a trail on Ocelot Mountain. The jungle terrain was lush, shaded by rich green grass, leaves, and vines. I wish I'd had time to relax in one of the hammocks placed periodically throughout the hike. I could have spent all day hiking these trails if I weren't on a guided group tour. We crossed two suspension bridges, which was a new experience for me. The first one was short, preparing me mentally for the second bridge, which I thought might be scary since our tour guide said it was longer. Although it was thrilling, I ended up loving the feeling of being suspended above the forest. I wish I could have crossed some more. On the way back to the port in Roatan, we stopped at a gift shop. Instead of shopping, I chose to explore the area outside the store to get a better sense of my surroundings until it was time to go back to the ship. Back on board, I went to the ship's top deck to get a better look at the island before departing. As we started to sail away, I saw houses and streets at the foothills of the mountainous jungle and wondered about the lives of the people inside them. I want to plan a trip back to Roatan on my own to see more of the island and take a longer hike with more suspended bridges. The next day, I woke up in Cozumel, the biggest island in the Mexican Caribbean. Since I'd never been to Cozumel, I was excited to see what it looked like outside the port. The island is known for its large, untouched wild area and surrounding coral reefs. I booked an excursion in Tulum, which was a 45-minute ferry ride away. When I booked my Royal Caribbean excursion to ancient ruins and a nearby beach, I didn't realize I'd be spending the whole day in Tulum. The ferry made me seasick, and I was disappointed that I wouldn't have any time in Cozumel. But I thought I'd come back. The ferry took us to Playa del Carmen on the coast of mainland Mexico. After the ferry ride, we hopped on a bus to the ancient Mayan ruins and the beach. Our first stop was the Mayan ruins. In ancient times, Tulum was a successful trading hub and one of the last Mayan cities. We entered through a small tunnel in the ancient wall surrounding the grounds. The ancient walls were next to forests. So I enjoyed some nature on the way. Inside, there were several preserved stone structures and temples from the 13th century. Some of the temples were rebuilt atop existing temples, the tour guide said. The ancient architecture and its history amazed me. To me, the coolest part of this experience was knowing that archaeologists could learn so much about this site's history simply by observing what's left of it. After the ruins tour, we went to the beach, where I swam in the clearest water I'd ever seen. Swimming and lounging at the beach was a relaxing way to end the day after a history lesson. And although I enjoyed my time in Tulum, I was still left wondering what it would have been like to spend the day in Cozumel. Roatan and Cozumel were the most memorable destinations of my trip. While I had fun at the last two ports, Costa Maya, Mexico, and CocoCay, Royal Caribbean's private island in the Bahamas, neither stood out to me quite as much as the first two, where I really felt like I was experiencing a new country. After my cruise, I added Roatan and Cozumel to my travel bucket list. I'll definitely return to get the full picture.