US lawmakers want to know: Who's calling the shots in the president's multi-billion-dollar stock-trading spree? In a letter sent to President Donald Trump on Wednesday, US Senator Elizabeth Warren and US Representative Robert Garcia, who is the head of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, aired concerns about Trump's recent trading activity. In his latest annual financial disclosure, the president revealed that he executed over 21,000 trades in his personal portfolio last year, far outpacing the trading activity of any other president, according to an analysis from the financial data firm Unusual Whales. Trump's trades generated more than $2 billion in income for the 2025 year, filings show, adding to concerns about conflicts of interest. The president has traded stocks that he posted about on social media, mentioned at public events, and that are tied to deals with the federal government. The total amount Trump traded may be even higher than what has been listed in the public filings, Warren and Garcia said, since the public disclosures don't include transactions under $1,000. "The sheer volume of stock trading by a sitting president is unprecedented. You—or the entities responsible for your accounts—made an average of approximately 50 trades every day markets were open during the first quarter of 2026," the letter said. The lawmakers highlighted several examples of stock purchases Trump made that either preceded or followed "favorable" statements or government announcements. Here are several notable investments that were outlined: | Stock | Time of purchase | Favorable announcement or statement | | Tesla | 2025 | Trump purchased up to $4 million worth of Tesla stock across more than 50 transactions last year. "Several" purchases were made before Trump posted videos of himself with Tesla CEO Elon Musk, the letter said. | | American Eagle | July 31, 2025 | Trump purchased up to $50,000 in American Eagle shares several days before making a Truth Social post about Sydney Sweeney's ad campaign for the retailer. | | AMD and Nvidia | January 6, 2026 | Trump purchased up to $100,000 worth of AMD shares and up to $1 million worth of Nvidia shares a week before the government announced it would ease export controls on both companies' chips sold to China. | | Microsoft | January 21, 2026 | Trump purchased "tens of thousands of dollars" in Microsoft stock the day before the Defense Department announced a cloud contract with the software giant. | | Boeing | February 10, 2026 | Trump purchased between $1 million and $5 million worth of Boeing stock 10 days before reports circulated that the president planned to travel to China. In March, Trump sold up to $1 million of Boeing shares and announced he planned to delay his trip. In May, Trump visited China and announced the US's sale of 200 Boeing planes to the nation. | | Intel | March 2026 | Trump bought up to $280,000 in Intel stock across multiple transactions. In April, the US announced it was taking a nearly 10% stake in the tech firm. | The lawmakers also included a list of questions for Trump to answer, prodding the president to list his investment managers, third parties involved with his trading accounts, and to describe the extent of Trump's and his family's involvement in selecting his investment team. "Every other recent president has sold their individual stocks before assuming office, put their money in broadly diversified funds, or set up a true blind trust," the letter said, later pointing to how the Trump Organization and some of Trump's personal assets are being controlled by his sons. Speaking to reporters in July, Trump said his wealth was controlled by outside funds and that he had no contact with those investing his money. Anna Kelly, a spokesperson for the White House, told Business Insider in an email that all of Trump's investments were held in "fully discretionary accounts managed by independent third-party financial institutions." "There are no conflicts of interest," she added.