Unlike many of its Big Tech peers, there's no free lunch at Nvidia. A recent X thread by software engineer and industry analyst Gergely Orosz, who claimed that snacks and coffee aren't free at the chip giant, drew attention to the chip giant's relatively sparse workplace perks. Two former employees told Business Insider that cafeteria meals aren't free but are subsidized, so some of the food's cost is covered by Nvidia. Some beverages, such as coffee, are complimentary, but select bottled beverages and drinks purchased from on-site cafés were not. The policy reflects a different philosophy from the Silicon Valley perk wars that once defined Big Tech. While rivals used free meals, gyms, and lavish campuses to keep employees in the office, former employees described a culture rooted in frugality, where lavish workplace perks took a back seat to the work itself. Big Tech is now increasingly clamping down on perks in a new era of efficiency. Amazon and Apple also don't offer free food. Nvidia's practice stands in contrast to Google, which continues to offer chef-prepared meals and microkitchens stocked with snacks. Meta is reportedly trying to improve its microkitchens amid morale challenges at the company. As tech companies rethink workplace perks in an era of AI and cost discipline, Nvidia's understated approach has become less of an outlier. The former employees attributed the approach to different facets of Nvidia's culture. "Philosophically, I think Jensen has a general belief about separation of pleasure and work," one said, noting the company didn't have "ping-pong tables, a company gym, massages-on-request, or stuff like that." The second added that Huang — a noted foodie — wants employees to be able to do their "life's work," which requires a healthy balance. "Other workplaces where everything is free are implicitly trying to coax employees into staying in the office as much as possible — Nvidia has the exact opposite philosophy." "Being frugal is deeply rooted in Nvidia's DNA," said a third employee who no longer works at the company. "Traditionally, hardware companies have always been operating at very thin margins, far below what software companies were doing." To this end, Nvidia vice presidents fly economy and don't have executive assistants — a practice that's been attributed to its "one team" culture of equality. The food policy doesn't appear to bother Nvidia employees. "There was so much exciting work going on that these types of things were really not an issue," a fourth former employee said. "Food would be your last concern as long as you could get it ASAP and return to your desk." Nvidia did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider. Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email at gweiss@businessinsider.com or Signal at @geoffweiss.25. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.