The beleaguered CEO of Good Good just publicly blasted Callaway after the golf company ended its partnership with the YouTuber group over a controversial ad. "Interesting that @CallawayGolf asks us to make an ad then approves it then asks us to take the fall then drops us in a coordinated media blitz and covers it up by giving a million dollars away thinking everyone will be ok with it," Matt Kendrick wrote in a post on X. Kendrick's post is the latest head-spinning episode in the fallout from a Good Good ad with the golf equipment giant, which promoted their cobranded driver. Good Good, which produces high-energy golf videos popular with 25- to 34-year-olds, had been considered a big success story in the creator economy. In 2025, it raised $45 million from Creator Sports Capital and others. The controversial promo depicted one of the group's cofounders, Garrett Clark, running toward a female member of the group, Alexis Miestowski, and shoving her to the ground. Standing over her, he says, "Do not touch my new driver," before picking it up himself and hitting a shot. The ad was met with swift backlash from those who felt it promoted violence against women. Kendrick and Callaway previously apologized for the ad. Clark said the ad was meant to be a riff on the movie "Obsession." Kendrick told Front Office Sports that he didn't see the ad before it ran. A person close to the company said two people from marketing were let go. "In this instance, our content review process was not comprehensive enough," Callaway previously said in a statement about the ad. "We have taken appropriate internal corrective actions and significantly strengthened our approval procedures to help ensure this does not happen again." The brand added that it would donate $1 million to organizations that aim to "prevent violence against women, provide resources to survivors, and advance education and awareness efforts." Callaway did not respond to requests for comments about Kendrick's post on X. The ad fallout has had major repercussions for Good Good's business beyond the loss of its Callaway partnership. Dick's Sporting Goods yanked Good Good products from shelves, and the golf group pulled out as a title sponsor for a PGA Tour event in the fall. The reverberation has spread to the Golf Channel, which scrapped the upcoming season of its reality golf series "Big Break," whose grand prize was entry into the PGA Tour event that Good Good was supposed to have sponsored.