December 1 - Surging demand for U.S. power transmission equipment has boosted the outlook for suppliers and led to a wave of investments in new factories. In September, Hitachi Energy announced more than $1 billion of investments in U.S. manufacturing infrastructure for grid components. Power infrastructure suppliers Siemens, GE, Hyosung HICO and WEG have also announced significant investments.

Large power transformers that are typically used between generation and transmission substations are in particularly high demand and a lack of manufacturing capacity has led to long lead times for developers. Average delivery times in the U.S. were 143 weeks for GSUs and 128 weeks for power transformers in the second quarter of 2025, according to Wood Mackenzie.

Hitachi’s planned investments include $457 million for a new large power transformer facility in South Boston and $106 million in transformer component manufacturing in Alamo, Tennessee. Hitachi will also invest $70 million to expand production of high-voltage components in and around Mount Pleasant, Pennsylvania, and $22.5 million to expand transformer manufacturing in Virginia.

Siemens, GE, Hyosung HICO and WEG are also investing in transformer manufacturing. Siemens is building a $150 million transformer factory in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is due for completion in early 2026. Meanwhile, Hyosung HICO said on November 12 that it would spend $157 million in expanding its transformer plant in Memphis, Tennessee and WEG plans to invest $77 million in its Specialty Transformer manufacturing facility in Washington, Missouri.

While wider demand for transformers will remain strong, policies in President Trump’s One Big Beautiful Bill Act that aim to curtail clean power growth have introduced some “downside risk” to transformer demand from clean power projects, Christoffersen noted.

The pledged investments in U.S. transformer manufacturing represent around one third of global growth over the next three years, Christoffersen said, narrowing the gap between supply and demand.

Wood Mackenzie estimates the demand for GSUs will be around 100% higher than supply in 2025 but predicts this will fall to below 10% by 2030 as new capacity comes online.
