Now that college football is back in season, fans of the Dogs can tune in to catch every game live. Read on to learn where to watch the Georgia Bulldogs college football games from home. To keep it simple, the best way to catch every team game in the US is with an ESPN Unlimited subscription. If you're tuning in internationally, you can stream via DAZN in the UK and other regions — or choose your preferred platform from anywhere by using a VPN. Where to watch Georgia Bulldogs in the US All of the Bulldogs' games will be available on an ESPN-owned channel or service. The exact network varies by game, with later events still to be determined. For each of the 12 games, you'll be able to tune in through ABC, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, SEC Network, or ESPN's streaming service. This keeps things pretty easy for fans of the team — or followers of any team this season. Signing up for an ESPN Unlimited subscription will cover all of the provider's networks, including ESPN+ and SECN+ exclusives. To join, it's $32 a month and grants access to a vast library of the hottest live sports, like the US Open. ESPN Unlimited has everything from ESPN Plus, in addition to all that the ESPN linear networks have to offer, along with some exclusive events not found on broadcast channels. Looking for more than just sports? A live TV streaming service is an excellent option for catering to your entire household's interests, whether you're fans of reality TV, international programming, or breaking news. We recommend YouTube TV and Fubo for the job, both of which offer affordable sports packages and include ESPN Unlimited for no additional cost. YouTube TV's Sports and Main plans include all the channels needed to catch every Bulldogs game. The Sports plan is more budget-friendly, starting at only $65 a month (but newcomers can get $20 off monthly for their first six months after a free trial). Main plans start at $83 a month (also on sale for $15 off every month for your first five months). YouTube TV's main plan carries over 100 channels, ranging from local networks to cable favorites. Another live TV streaming service we like, Fubo, carries all the ESPN-owned channels where college football will be broadcast. Most of its plans will do the job, except for Fubo's Latino plan. Starting at $89 a month for Pro, new customers can get $25 off their first month following a free trial. There's also a budget-friendly Sports + News option in select markets, which costs at $65 a month. Fubo unlocks ESPN Unlimited access. Fubo is the streaming service for sports fans. Its huge library of channels includes regional and international sports leagues, setting it apart from the competition. You can also tack on additional programming to your plan, but it'll cost you extra. Where to watch Georgia Bulldogs in the UK and other regions If you find yourself across the pond this season, fret not: college football will be available to watch on DAZN in the UK and other regions. Games will only be available with a DAZN NCAA College Sports subscription, which varies in price by region; a select few games will be free to watch. How to watch Georgia Bulldogs from anywhere In the event that you're not in any of the above regions to catch Georgia's next game, a VPN will save your day. Virtual Private Networks are popular cybersecurity tools that allow users to temporarily change their virtual location, enabling access to region-locked websites and services from anywhere in the world. Our favorite is NordVPN, one of the best VPNs you can choose from. Fast, secure, and backed by a 30-day money-back guarantee, you can't go wrong giving it a shot. NordVPN is top of the pile of the best VPN services. It offers excellent value, with a strong feature set and a low monthly price. A wide selection of international servers, high-end security, fast connections, and audited privacy protection have made the brand a household name in the world of VPNs for a reason. Georgia Bulldogs Football Schedule Note: The use of VPNs is illegal in certain countries and using VPNs to access region-locked streaming content might constitute a breach of the terms of use for certain services. Business Insider does not endorse or condone the illegal use of VPNs. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here. Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com.