Early birds get worms, but early shoppers? They get something a bit more appealing: Deals! This week, that means Memorial Day deals, to be precise, since sales are already popping up at the biggest retailers across the web. Of course, weeding through all of the markdowns can be overwhelming and time-consuming, which is why I, a professional deal hunter, have rounded up the best bargains I’m seeing at the moment. From my favorite Craftsman handheld vacuum (just $59, down from $100) to a Sealy queen mattress for a mere $399 (nearly 70% off), these are discounts you’ll want to scoop up before the grill’s been fired up. Psst: To browse new deals daily, subscribe to our Today's Best Sales newsletter here. Our top deal of the day 🤔 Why we love it: This is the very handvac I use at home, and let me tell you — it's so much more powerful than its lightweight feel would imply. Is it bulkier than some of the other hand vacuums out there? Yes, but that's to be expected, given its industrial-strength performance. That said, it's portable enough to bring from room to room without it feeling like a workout, and that's all I can ask for. 💰 Why it's a good deal: At over 40% off, this price matches the vacuum's lowest in at least a year — I paid more than double that amount for mine! Bonus: You don't have to purchase the battery and charger separately. Check out my full Craftsman V20 Cordless Hand Vacuum review for more. 10 other deals worth browsing today For those who prefer a dedicated pair of driving and drilling tools rather than a two-in-one combo, meet your new workbench besties. This set even comes with two batteries and a charger. Not bad for under $100. According to Senior Deals Writer Chris McGraw, "I put my money where my mouth (err, keyboard) is and picked this one up myself." When a shopping editor pounces on a deal, you know it's worthwhile! Behold: the coveted Stanley cup. This tumbler features the brand's FlowState three-position lid, which lets you rotate it to the straw opening, the spout opening or the closed position. The body of each Quencher is made of BPA-free stainless steel and can keep drinks cold for up to nine hours (40 hours if they're iced). ⚡ Rare sale: This bestselling beverage bearer rarely goes on sale (it's so popular that it doesn't really need to), but it happens to be marked down by 25% in a handful of pretty hues — good time to stock up! If you need to replace your mattress, there’s no time like the present to save. Memorial Day is prime time for mattress deals, and this medium-firm Sealy is nearly 70% off. It features a cooling gel memory foam top layer over two more layers of support foam, and it's backed by a 10-year warranty. More than 8,700 snoozy shoppers have given it five stars. “This mattress has been comfortable from day one. It’s the perfect size for my space, and the price couldn’t be beat," one wrote. Temperatures are rising, and if you're in the market for a chill new appliance, thousands of shoppers swear by this cooling fan. (It was purchased more than 30,000 times this month!) With 90-degree oscillation, it'll cool down the room from many angles and has four modes and five speeds for customized comfort. 🔥 Great time to buy: I've yet to see it on sale for less since January, and I anticipate fewer markdowns as the weather gets warmer. My advice? Scoop one up while you can save nearly 30%. Not really a jacket, but not really a sweater, this comfy layering piece is the versatile garment you'll reach for whenever it's a little too chilly for a T-shirt. The oversized fit is right on trend, while the half-zip design gives it a cool, sporty vibe. 🔥 Great time to buy: Patagonia sales are few and far between, and items that are marked down often sell out quickly. That said, this pullover is still available in four colors (and in all sizes), so take advantage before it starts flying off the virtual shelves. If you haven’t switched to a cordless vacuum, it makes life much easier, and Shark is a top choice. This model can detect floor type and automatically adjusts the brushroll speed for optimal performance on all surfaces, and it illuminates hidden dust to ensure no spot is missed. It also features a self-cleaning brushroll for powerful pet hair pickup without hair wrap. Searching for a versatile spring dress? This little black dress checks every box — from its chic midi length cut and short sleeves to its handy pockets and flattering A-line silhouette. At under $25, it's a guaranteed wardrobe win. Looking to cover up those roots? Senior Beauty Editor Jennifer Romolini calls this user-friendly product "the Cadillac of root touch-up sprays." She adds, "The product itself is lightweight, while still remaining heavily pigmented. It also dries instantly, with zero transfer and no stickiness — it feels more like a dry shampoo than a heavy gray concealer and even gave the crown of my hair a welcome volume lift. But the star here is the ultra-precise color match. ... I have dark blonde hair, and I've never had a root cover-up spray match this well. In fact, before trying Style Edit's 'Blonde Perfection' shade, I'd accepted that, in order to cover the silver, I'd need to temporarily live with darker roots. 💰 Good deal: I've only seen this on sale for less once since last year, so stock up while you can save over 40%. I don't know if you've shopped for patio furniture lately, but it can cost more than the pieces you use inside your home! This lovely loveseat, however, is reasonably priced, and its woven design makes it look like a million bucks. There's a built-in table, so just imagine how enjoyable sipping your morning coffee (or evening martini) will be — oh, and reviewers say it doesn't take long to assemble. 🔥 Great time to buy: Many single patio chairs cost more than this all-in-one loveseat, so it's really a stellar price at nearly 40% off. Looking for a new pair of jeans for spring? These classic high-rise jeans sit at your natural waist for a flattering fit and are high-waisted, so they look equally good with a T-shirt tucked in or a shirt for a more polished look. Their stretch fabric provides comfort plus, and they have over 56,000 five-star reviews. More of the best sales to browse today Adidas: Get up to 40% off select clothes and shoes. Amazon: Snag savings on everything from home goods and electronics to clothing and beauty finds. Anthropologie: Save up to 70% on sale items. Best Buy: Take hundreds off of laptops, TVs, home appliances and more. Brooklinen: Score bedding, bath linens and more for up to 75% off. Coach Outlet: Save up to 70% on sale styles. Cozy Earth: Get up to 55% off Oprah-approved bedding, loungewear and more. CVS: Save on household essentials, beauty must-haves and more with Extra Big Deals. DSW: Score clearance styles from Clarks, Birkenstock and more for up to 55% off. Everlane: Get up to 70% off sale items. Gap: Score up to 50% off warm-weather styles. Gap Factory: Get up to 70% off sitewide, plus an extra 10% off select items. J.Crew: Save an additional 40% on sale items with code SUMMER. Kate Spade Outlet: Take up to 70% off bags and accessories, and get an extra 20% off when you buy two or more items. Kohl's: Get up to 70% off clearance bedding, clothing, shoes and more. Loft: Take 40% off your purchase. Macy's: Shop shoes, clothing, bedding, jewelry and more for up to 75% off. Nordstrom: Score designer clearance markdowns for up to 40% off. Nordstrom Rack: Take up to 75% off new arrivals. Old Navy: Get up to 60% off sale styles. QVC: Save an extra 15% on clearance deals, and if it’s your first order, you’ll get $15 off your first purchase of $35 or more with code HELLO15. REI: Save up to 25% of footwear and camping gear, plus big discounts on brands like Patagonia, The North Face and more during the Anniversary Sale. Skechers: Select styles are buy one, get one 50% off. Spanx: Score up to 75% off sale items. Sur La Table: Save up to 50% on brands like Staub, Le Creuset and more. Target: Save up to 50% on storage solutions, kitchen essentials and more. The Home Depot: Save on patio furniture, appliances, power tools and more. Ulta: Big names in skin care, fragrances, makeup and hair care are up to 50% off. Wayfair: Score up to 70% off furniture, decor and more during the Memorial Day Clearance event. The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication.