Copy linkEmailFacebookWhatsAppXLinkedInBlueskyThreadsImpact Link SaveSaved This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now.Have an account? . Europeans set their eyes on the sky on Wednesday to witness the only total solar eclipse of the year. The phenomenon, which occurs when the moon passes in front of the sun, began at 11:34 a.m. ET, with totality lasting up to about 2 minutes and 18 seconds. The lucky few corners of the world with the potential to see the full eclipse were Iceland, Greenland, Spain, the Arctic, and portions of Portugal and Siberia. In North America, Canada and the northern parts of the US caught a glimpse of a partial eclipse, a far cry from 2024's eclipse, which swept across the nation and was forecast to drive an extra $1.6 billion to the nation's economy. This latest eclipse also brought a tourism boom to Iceland: Data from the UK data firm Lighthouse shows hotel room prices exceeded $1,000 per night in the country's capital, Reykjavik. That's 212% above the city's average rate for 2026. The next total solar eclipse visible from the US won't occur until March 2033, but it will only be visible in Alaska. The contiguous US will have to wait until August 2044 to witness the next total eclipse. In Europe, eclipse events and celebrations varied by region. Some gathered at Iceland Eclipse, a five-day science and music festival, rubbing shoulders with the likes of artist Imogen Heap, Academy Award-nominated director Darren Aronofsky, American astronaut Sian Proctor, and more. Others went on multi-thousand-dollar cruises or took a flight. Some airlines allowed travelers the opportunity to see the eclipse unobstructed above the clouds, with people paying up to $1,200 for a seat. Here are the best photos of the 2026 total solar eclipse. This was mainland Europe's first total solar eclipse since 1999. Spectators celebrated at parks, viewpoints, and festivals on the ground, as well as aboard special flights. A photo taken in Caspe, Spain, shows the moon beginning to eclipse the sun. A shortage of solar eclipse glasses in UK shops left some scrambling. Others came up with alternative eye-protection options. Through the clouds in Stockholm, viewers could see about 83% of the sun obscured. Scientists on the ground — and in the sky — studied the eclipse to better understand the sun's magnetic field. Cloud cover blocked the view in parts of Northern Europe. Greenland saw a boost in tourism for the total solar eclipse. Some cruise ship tours cost upward of $10,000. The sun's corona, or outer atmosphere, was visible during totality. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk viewed the eclipse from the Copernicus Science Centre in Warsaw. Read next Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Tristin Hoffman is a Life Fellow on Business Insider’s Editorial Partnerships team. Her reporting focuses on retail, travel, business, and more through a visual storytelling and lifestyle lens. She has previously reported on Oregon’s economy for The Oregonian and Pennsylvania litigation for Law.com. Her stories have inspired policy changes, shed light on public officials’ misconduct, and gained national awards. She graduated from the University of Oregon, where she studied journalism and law while serving as editor-in-chief of The Daily Emerald.