Gold prices have popped in recent days as a multitude of factors enhance the appeal of the precious metal among investors. A range of macroeconomic and geopolitical issues have drummed up renewed discussions of the "debasement trade," which says investors should flock to real assets as currencies like the dollar falter in the face of fiscal instability. The latest talking point in that conversation came last week, when Scott Bessent announced that the US Treasury Department could double US bond purchases to $4 billion. The move sent a signal to markets that the government was looking to artificially push yields down to control borrowing costs, something that investors interpret as inflationary. Gold prices spiked on the news, with the metal hitting three-month highs on Monday, and up 7% in five days to top $4,700 an ounce. "It broke out to the upside last Wednesday after US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent announced a doubling of government bond repurchases at the long end of the curve," stated David Morrison, senior market analyst at Trade Nation. "This led to a sharp drop in 10 and 30-year Treasury yields and a corresponding slump in the US dollar." Bessent's plan to intervene in the US bond market by buying long-dated Treasurys has sparked some criticism, including from his old investing mentor, hedge fund billionaire Stanley Druckenmiller, who wrote in an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal this week that policymakers should "let the bond market speak." But so far, the moves have been bullish for gold prices, mainly due to the impact they've had on the US dollar. The greenback has dipped versus rival currencies since Bessent's announcement, setting up the conditions that help gold and other debasement trades like silver and bitcoin gain. "This helped to boost both gold and silver as these two precious metals have shown a close inverse correlation to the dollar since they pulled back from their respective all-time highs at the end of January," Morrison added. Michael Hsueh, an FX & Commodities strategist at Deutsche Bank, wrote on Tuesday that Bessent's bond market maneuvers are likely sparking concern among investors regarding the US government's ability to finance its debt burden over time. In his team's view, though, gold is in an excellent position, as it is likely to benefit regardless of how the bond market responds to the intervention. "If yields rise again despite the intervention, gold would appear likely to continue its rally as yields may be rising for 'bad' reasons. On the other hand, the market could partly find a release valve through a weaker USD, if international investors become less willing to absorb supply at prevailing (lower) yields." Hsueh isn't the only finance pro who sees a rare win/win scenario ahead for gold as macro conditions reignite the debasement trade. With inflation still elevated, many investors are watching keenly for an update from Fed chair Kevin Warsh at Friday's Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium. Chris Mancini, a portfolio manager at Gabelli Funds, told Business Insider that he sees two possible ways Bessent's bond market intervention could be bullish for gold prices. "It's evidence of market uneasiness with rising national debt as long-term yields spike and bond prices crater as investors demand higher returns for higher risk," he said. "Gold is an asset which is no one's liability. [Additionally], its evidence of government market-manipulation which could presage more quantitative easing through money printing (quantitative easing) or other creative ways to affect the value of the dollar." Finally, lingering fears around the Iran war are also thrusting gold back into the spotlight. Inflation concerns likely won't fully abate until the Strait of Hormuz is reopened and energy is flowing through to global markets again. That dynamic of geopolitical instability fueling inflation fears sets the stage for gold to keep gaining. Get the latest Gold price here. Your guide to what's moving markets