Calabria, the southernmost region of mainland Italy, feels untouched by mass tourism — especially compared to major cities like Rome, Florence, and Venice. Some even refer to it as Italy's best-kept secret. A 15,000-square-kilometer collection of beach towns, hilltop villages, and mountainous inland areas right at the toe of "The Boot," Calabria has diverse landscapes, a slow pace, and a distinctly local feel. My father was born and raised in the region, which separates the Ionian Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea, so I've visited it more than eight times. Whether I'm exploring one of Calabria's coasts, mountain ranges, or quaint villages, I'm always struck by how natural, raw, and authentic the area feels. I firmly believe it's one of Italy's most underrated regions. Getting to this part of Italy requires a bit of planning if you're traveling from the US Like so many places in Italy, Calabria gets most of its visitors in the summer months. But late spring and early fall, particularly in May and September, are ideal times to travel there, as the weather is warm and there aren't many summertime crowds. That said, Calabria feels relatively low-key year-round compared to other parts of Italy. Even at the height of summer, it doesn't feel saturated with tourists. In popular spots like a cliffside town called Tropea, I've encountered fellow travelers, but I've also been to several villages in Calabria where I only come across locals. Be warned: Getting there from the US can require some planning. Calabria's main airport is called the Lamezia Terme International Airport, but most long-haul flights, including ones from the US, arrive in Rome, Milan, or Naples. From these hubs, travelers can take a short domestic flight or train to Calabria. I always recommend renting a car in Calabria if possible, as public transportation between towns can be limited and time-consuming to navigate. The beaches are one of the region's main draws Calabria has about 740 kilometers of coastline, but a few beaches stand out. Tropea is the most recognizable beach on the Tyrrhenian side, with dramatic cliffs dropping into clear turquoise water and wide stretches of pale sand. With a historic town perched above the shoreline, it's one of the region's most striking spots. A 20-minute drive away is Capo Vaticano, where there are coves and viewpoints overlooking water that shifts between deep blue and bright aquamarine depending on the light. Briatico is another nearby beach that feels quiet and residential. On the Ionian side of Calabria, Pietragrande is a popular spot for swimming and snorkeling with rocky formations and clear water. A 20-minute drive north, Catanzaro Lido has a long shoreline with beach clubs, restaurants, and a promenade bustling with locals and tourists. Local shops and restaurants give the region its character Calabria is home to countless small gelaterias, local businesses, and family-run restaurants serving recipes passed down through generations. In Tropea, spots like Vecchio Granaio make simple regional staples, like fileja pasta with spicy 'nduja, which is spreadable pork sausage. For a more elevated meal in Tropea, Deodato Lounge Bistrot is a sit-down restaurant with a scenic view of the Tyrrhenian Sea that is especially gorgeous at sunset. On the Ionian side, in Catanzaro Lido, locals gather at Lido De Fazio, a beach club known locally as Mastro Ciccio, that serves simple, reasonably priced dishes. Calabria has plenty of history and culture, too Alongside its natural beauty, Calabria also has a rich culture and history. The region has plenty of churches, castles, and archaeological sites worth exploring. I always recommend visiting the Riace Bronzes, two 5th-century Greek bronze statues discovered in the Ionian Sea in 1972. Now, they're available to view at the Museo Archeologico Nazionale di Reggio Calabria. Each arrival in Calabria feels like a homecoming I don't consider Calabria a substitute for hot spots like the Amalfi Coast or Florence, as the region offers its own distinct experience. To really get a sense for Calabria, I recommend staying at least a week, as it allows visitors to properly explore the coastline and inland towns. Some of my favorite memories are roaming the breathtaking beaches, eating spicy 'nduja and fresh seafood, and spending time with family members who still live in Vibo Valentia, a city in western part of the region. Above all else, it's the Calabrian people that keep me coming back. They're some of the warmest and most generous individuals I've met. No matter where life takes me, I'll always be called back to this part of Italy. Each time I arrive, it feels like returning home.