Colossal waterfalls, scenic train rides, and cities that feel like Europe — I experienced them all in one week during my first trip to Canada. In August 2022, I traveled from my home in New York City to Canada's eastern provinces of Ontario and Quebec. Overall, my trip to Canada was only a taste of what the country has to offer — a rich bite that left me hungry for more. I knew from the moment I left that I would be back. I traveled to Ontario and Quebec by bus, train, and plane, hitting cities and attractions from Niagara Falls to Montreal. I traveled by train from NYC to Niagara Falls, New York, and walked into Niagara Falls, Canada. After three days in the Niagara Falls area, I took a bus up to Toronto for a night. From there, I traveled by train to Montreal and Quebec City, spending one night in each city before flying home to New York. As a seasoned Amtrak rider, I found Canada's train system, Via Rail, so impressive that I want to return to try more classes and routes. I've spent more than 150 hours on Amtrak trains, reviewing its various accommodations — from business and first class to private rooms in sleeper cars. So, when I traveled to Canada, I was excited to try out Via Rail, Canada's train line similar to Amtrak. One of the most accessible and popular ways to travel through the country, Via Rail has economy seating, business class, and sleeper accommodations. After two rides, I found that my first experiences on Canada's Via Rail system were more comfortable than Amtrak equivalents, thanks to top-notch service and amenities. I booked two Via Rail rides — one in economy and another in business class. I booked a business-class ticket from Toronto to Montreal. For about $200, it came with perks that Amtrak only offers to first-class passengers, such as meal service and access to lounges at select stations, including Toronto. I also booked an economy ticket on Via Rail from Montreal to Quebec City for about $150, and I thought it was more spacious than an Amtrak coach seat. Now, I want to explore Canada by train and perhaps try out more classes, such as sleeper cars and premium accommodations. After trying poutine for the first time, I have to go back for some different takes on it. Poutine is a pile of fries topped with cheese curds and smothered in gravy — a Canadian comfort food originating in Quebec. Before visiting Canada, I had never tried poutine or even seen it on a menu. That changed in Montreal when I dined at La Banquise, a casual joint serving classic poutine and creative renditions loaded with meats, vegetables, bacon, or sauces like Caesar and chipotle. I decided to go with the classic since it was my first time trying it. In one bite, I could see why this dish was so popular and comforting. It was warm, filling, and nostalgic. The fries were crispy and greasy, just like I like them. The gravy tasted like Thanksgiving dinner, and the curds added a unique texture without overpowering the flavor. Next time I'm in Montreal, I'll return to La Banquise to try some of the other loaded poutine options on the menu. I thought Niagara Falls was epic and beautiful. Niagara Falls is an iconic landmark known for its massive waterfalls on the US-Canada border. Seeing Niagara Falls up close was a highlight of the trip. Since I've seen so many pictures, I wasn't expecting to be quite so entranced by the falls. But I was completely in awe of how massive, beautiful, and loud they were. The boardwalk lining the falls also reminded me of Times Square on New Year's Eve because of the excitement it drew. I'd love to go back during the offseason to see what it's like when it's less crowded. There were a lot of crowds at the falls. From the attractions surrounding it to the packed crosswalks around town, Niagara Falls was so full of people that I spent a lot of time waiting in lines and standing on my tippy toes to peer over people's heads. It would have been much more enjoyable without so many other visitors. I would love to go back to Niagara Falls in early spring or late fall when it's less crowded and enjoy a more peaceful moment alone in front of the falls. I got a break from the crowds when I stayed at this treehouse Airbnb outside Niagara Falls. I wanted to mix time in big cities with smaller towns to relax and see what life is like away from the bustle. While searching for unique Airbnbs in the areas I was traveling to, I came across a treehouse on a property located between a vineyard and the woods. I stayed for one night and found it to be so peaceful and relaxing. I loved being alone in this quiet, natural place equipped with all the comforting amenities of home. Sitting on the front porch facing the forest, this treehouse was the best remote office I've had the pleasure of working in. It was the perfect place to reflect on my travels, note my most interesting observations, and review the hundreds of photos I'd already taken. I'd love to go back for a few days to recharge completely. I didn't get a chance to cook a meal in the kitchen or spend a day reading outside — something I used to do a lot as a kid. The next time I come to this treehouse, it'll be for a vacation. I loved exploring Montreal on foot. Montreal was one of the most beautiful cities I've ever seen, with its contrasting blend of modern and historic architectural styles, from Art Deco to Gothic Revival. Walking up and down the city's hills was tiring but rewarding. I enjoyed some impressive, all-encompassing views that made me wish I had more time to explore. I also walked around Old Montreal, a neighborhood reminiscent of Europe with cobblestone streets. While I took beautiful pictures, I didn't have time to go inside the many shops, museums, and restaurants along the way. Next time I'm in Montreal, I plan to find accommodations in Old Montreal to learn more about the city's history. My favorite walk took me to the top of Mount Royal. Since I only had one night in Montreal, I got up around 6 a.m. and walked from my hotel downtown to Mount Royal, a small mountain in the middle of the city. It was a 30-minute uphill walk followed by another half-hour of climbing stairs that wound up the mountain. It was exhausting, but when I got to the top, it was worth it. I could see the whole skyline, and I longed for more time to wander specific streets. The Old Quebec neighborhood in Quebec City made me feel like I was in Europe without the long-haul flight. Quebec City is a 400-year-old French-Canadian city. With its cobblestone streets, old-world architecture, and French signs and storefronts, it was like being in Europe. I spent one night in a gorgeous hotel that looked more like a castle. I had roughly 24 hours in Quebec City and spent all of it in Old Quebec, a UNESCO World Heritage site and home to the famed Fairmont Le Château Frontenac, a luxury hotel where I stayed the night in a 180-square-foot room with a stunning view. I thought it was the most beautiful hotel I'd ever stayed at, and it was located in an ideal spot for sightseeing in Old Quebec. The hotel towered above Dufferin Terrace, a boardwalk with restaurants and benches overlooking the St. Lawrence River. On the other side of the hotel was Place d'Armes, a beautiful small park with a large fountain. I also explored and photographed the surrounding streets, which are full of shops and restaurants. I wish I had time to shop at places like Quartier Petit-Champlain. I left Quebec City longing for more time to explore, shop, and dine. Canada is so large that I left feeling like I had barely scratched the surface. It's wild to think that my first trip to Canada was within a small fraction of the country. Not only do I want to spend more time in the places I've already visited, but I also want to explore other provinces, such as Nova Scotia, Alberta, and Prince Edward Island. I've since been to Vancouver, British Columbia, but I've still only explored a sliver of Canada. Which province should I visit next?