When the US consumer is weakening, Walmart is usually one of the last dominoes to fall. When economic conditions get tough, low-income shoppers rely on it even more. It's also become a destination for higher-income consumers looking to cut costs. That's what made Walmart's first comparable-sales loss in six years particularly hard to swallow on Thursday. It was not only a bad sign for the business, but also the economy at large, given the company's bellwether status. The investor reaction was swift and punishing. Walmart fell as much as 10% in early trading before finishing the day 9% low. The move wiped out the company's stock gain for 2026. To be fair, Walmart attributed the comp-sales decline to "transitory" pricing pressure in its pharmacy business, and would've seen an increase otherwise. But the biggest stock drop in more than four years is a signal that can't be ignored. The market has lost a bit of faith in one of its steadiest retailers. Walmart's rough report is just one in a growing list of red flags surrounding the US consumer. Other recent worrisome signs include: Tepid earnings for other retailers — Home Depot and Lowe's noted continued weak demand for large-scale home improvement, while TJX reported a comparable-sales miss for its segment that includes TJ Maxx and Marshalls. A surprise decline in July retail sales — A 0.6% contraction defied expectations for 0.1% growth and marked the first decline in almost a year. Consumer sentiment fell this month — The University of Michigan's sentiment index decreased in August for the first time in three months. An unexpected contraction in jobs — The July jobs report showed the US lost 23,000 nonfarm payrolls, badly missing the consensus forecast for 80,000 additions. These signals are combining to further complicate an interest-rate picture that's already very much up in the air. Investors are still pricing in at least one rate hike by year-end, but it's hard to imagine the Fed wanting to further constrict an already-sensitive consumer. Then there's inflation. If consumers are already getting cautious after two straight months of cooling prices, another flare-up — perhaps fueled by continued Iran-war tensions — would leave the Fed with an ugly choice: fight inflation, or protect the consumer. Walmart earnings are just the latest sign that the Fed may soon have to make that uncomfortable decision. Your guide to what's moving markets