The move: Snowflake stock jumped as much as 26% on Thursday, before finishing the day up 17%, at $356.56. Shares of the software maker are up 62% year to date. Why: The surge on Thursday follows a strong Q2 earnings report. Snowflake's results came in above Wall Street's estimates on key metrics, with product revenue reaching $1.49 billion, a 37% year-over-year increase, while the company also raised revenue guidance for the current quarter and the fiscal year. Importantly, the company reported a big jump in adoption of its AI coding agent, CoCo, which added over 2,000 accounts in the quarter, bringing the total to 9,100. It's the second straight quarter of red-hot results and stellar post-earnings gains for the stock. Share surged more than 40% after it reported first quarter earnings at the end of May. Snowflake was among the companies that saw its stock crushed on fears of a "Saaspocalyse" earlier in the year, as AI startups rolled out tools and updates that investors saw as a threat to the sector. "Q2 marks our third consecutive quarter of product revenue growth acceleration, driven by strength in both our core data platform and a meaningful step-up in AI revenue," stated Snowflake CFO Brian Robins. "Balancing growth with discipline remains a top priority, and we are raising our full-year product revenue growth guidance to 36% year-over-year. What it means: Snowflakes results, particularly the accelerating adoption of its AI coding tool, is a bullish update for Wall Street's favorite trade, as it demonstrates that enterprise customers are increasingly using the software tools that AI hardware is enabling. The report renewed bullish sentiment toward the company and the stock among Wall Street analysts. Bank of America and Deutsche Bank both increased their price targets, while others see the report as a strong indicator for the AI trade broadly. "The bigger thematic story here is that the Snowflake print (coupled with material growth rate accelerations at peers Palantir and Databricks) is compelling evidence of strong enterprise AI adoption, a critical pillar of the long-AI trade," wrote UBS analyst Karl Keirstead.