For most of 2026, bitcoin has been clamoring not just for a return to record highs, but also a return to relevance. As AI mania has swept through stocks, generating triple-digit gains left and right, the market's old shiny object has fallen by the wayside. Aside from a few fits and starts, bitcoin has been mired in a range roughly 40-50% below record highs notched in October 2025. Its problem has been a severe case of catalyst-itis. Which is a fancy way of saying there's been nothing for investors to get excited about. Last winter's leverage-driven crypto wipeout left a lot of buyers on the sideline, hesitant to re-engage. … until now. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm pleased to inform you that bitcoin appears to be back. And if it's not back, it's staging a headfake for the ages. The chart below speaks for itself. Bitcoin's 23% gain in just five days is its biggest surge since it unceremoniously tumbled from records. What changed? Suddenly, and seemingly all at once, bitcoin has a lot going for it. But the nagging question for crypto investors is whether this time is truly different. Is this finally the leg up that proves to be sustainable? Let's dig into each positive driver for bitcoin, and handicap which ones are most likely to stick around: 1. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent's surprise bond-buyback plan In retrospect, this looks like the initial spark. The Treasury's decision to double long-duration bond repurchases pushed long yields sharply lower, immediately improving the backdrop for risk assets. Chances of lasting: Medium — Long-dated yields have already recovered most of their post-buyback-plan decline. But Bessent has signaled that the Treasury could intervene further. 2. The dollar has been weak Bitcoin is behaving at least partly like a dollar hedge, alongside gold, which has also climbed in recent days. This shows that the forces driving bitcoin higher are not necessarily crypto-specific. Chances of lasting: Medium — This is a macro trend that can persist, although it's highly dependent on rates and Fed expectations. 3. Trump is turning up the heat The president hosted a crypto summit at the White House this week and renewed his push for the CLARITY Act, which would establish a framework for crypto regulation. The Senate's Sept. 15 procedural vote gives the rally an obvious next catalyst. Chances of lasting: High — if Congress delivers. This is probably the factor with the greatest potential to permanently change bitcoin's demand backdrop, although it will face resistance in the Senate. 4. There's been a short squeeze This was an accelerant, rather than a spark. Bitcoin's breakout above its recent trading range zapped shorts and created a self-perpetuating cycle of forced buying. Chances of lasting: Low — Once positions are liquidated, that source of forced buying is exhausted. Shorts have to rebuild before another squeeze can happen. So, is bitcoin actually back? One way to monitor the situation — and whether institutional buyers are ready to re-commit to bitcoin — is to watch ETF inflows. If funds can attract fresh capital, that will be evidence that investors who abandoned bitcoin last winter are actually returning. A few days of huge gains have made bitcoin exciting again. Sustained inflows would suggest it's relevant again, too. Check out Business Insider's picks for best cryptocurrency exchanges Your guide to what's moving markets