Kevin Warsh is bringing his Wall Street chops back to Washington. The new head of the central bank — who took the post in May — comes from a career as a finance executive at Morgan Stanley, an economic advisory role in the Bush White House, and a former governorship on the Federal Reserve. The 56-year-old has a reputation for being tough on inflation and optimistic about AI. Beyond starting press conferences with a unique "good day" greeting, Warsh is already bucking tradition at the Fed. He's reevaluating how the committee solves problems, uses economic data, and communicates with the public. It's a departure from more orthodox predecessors like Jerome Powell and Janet Yellen, and similar in style to leaders at big banks and in Corporate America. "My colleagues and I will endeavor to construct more reliable models and more robust rules to guide policy decisions," Warsh said during his first Jackson Hole Economic Symposium address on Friday. As he begins his tenure, he is "not waiting to introduce innovations at the Fed to make us fit for purpose. " The new chair has a tight-lipped communication style Warsh isn't one to show all his cards. In both his confirmation hearings and his rate decisions as chair, he has made it clear that he doesn't believe in forward guidance, or the practice of conveying central bankers' thoughts on future monetary policy moves to markets and consumers. It's a measured attitude reminiscent of private-sector leaders like JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon and former Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett, who have opposed providing detailed quarterly guidance for their companies. Warsh prefers to emphasize real-time policy decisions over speculative economic outlooks. "Oversharing policy deliberations and overcommitting to future decisions can lead markets, businesses, and households astray," Warsh said at Jackson Hole, adding that, "Transparency in communications about future policy decisions is not a virtue unto itself." In previous Fed eras, for example, the interest rate decision briefs included detailed reasoning behind the committee's choice to cut, hike, or hold rates steady. As Powell put it in 2025, "Monetary policy is more effective when the public understands what we are doing and why." Yellen was also vocal about the importance of clearly explaining Fed decisions. Even central bank legend Alan Greenspan favored providing a policy rationale to prevent premature price tightening in the markets. With Warsh at the helm, the two decision briefs released so far were short and nearly verbatim to one another, providing little insight into the Fed's current viewpoints or future moves. He said this is on purpose. He wants investors to "play ball, not the referee." And, while Warsh plans to continue holding regular press conferences in 2026, he hinted he may spread those out later in his tenure. The new chair also abstained from the June economic projections, declining to include his own dot on the dot plot, a chart that shows how Fed leaders expect rates to shift over time. Previous chairs heavily hedged the dot plot, saying that policy isn't on a pre-set course and Americans shouldn't solely bank on those projections. Still, the group preferred to publish predictions and explain their thinking — sharing details on how geopolitical conflicts, supply shocks, or labor market conditions were shaping Federal Open Market Committee discussions. Past leaders like Powell also frequently spoke about which economic challenges the Fed doesn't control, such as tariffs or wars. This divergence is especially stark in the language the chairs have used at press conferences. Warsh tends to use phrases like "delivering price stability" and ensuring "strong performance" when describing his monetary policy goals, which sounds more assured, like the vocabulary of an earnings call or CEO memo. Powell, by contrast, used words like "uncertainty," saying the Fed was "driving through the fog" of limited data or "waiting to see" how supply shocks would shake out. Warsh's word choice may seem more confident, but critics worry that his lack of transparency will make it harder for lawmakers and market movers to understand FOMC decision-making. As former Fed and White House economist Claudia Sahm put it this week, "I may not agree with his arguments, but I really want to hear them. His 30,000-foot claims and catchy slogans leave too many blanks." Joseph Brusuelas, the chief economist at RSM, also wrote on X that "Other than implying he will lift rates if inflation moves higher, market participants will largely find (Warsh's speech) unsatisfying." Pressure from the Trump administration to cut rates has significantly threatened the Fed's independence over the past year, and some congressional leaders are concerned that Warsh might prioritize Trump's desires over hard economic signals. Sen. Elizabeth Warren famously called the new chair a "sock puppet" for the president during his confirmation hearing. Warsh's problem-solving strategy is pro-AI and heavy on task forces Past Fed chairs have long relied on monthly jobs and inflation reports to assess the economic landscape. The FOMC has a dual mandate to ensure stable prices and maximum employment for Americans. While all chairs have been squarely focused on the mandate, Warsh brings a fresh, corporate-sounding approach to problem-solving. "We make choices amid uncertainty, and the data upon which we draw must be as relevant, contemporaneous, accurate, and actionable as possible," Warsh said Friday. Combatting inflation is a top priority, he said. America's economy has been through a lot in the past five years: pandemic recovery, US wars in Ukraine and Iran, and flip-flopping trade policy from the White House. It has all resulted in stubborn inflation, a sluggish job market, and relatively high interest rates from the Fed. To best address these challenges, Warsh plans to overhaul the data sources the Fed uses, saying that the jobs report reflects "echoes of history." He would prefer that the FOMC react to real-time information — such as private-sector data and surveys — rather than to monthly government reports. It's data that more closely resembles how big banks and retailers assess their performance. In his first meeting as chair, Warsh also introduced a slew of task forces focused on addressing central bank communications, jobs and productivity, inflation, the balance sheet, and data. He has since selected a group of outside consultants and economists to advise each task force. On the AI front, Warsh said he hopes to incorporate more AI into the Fed's research and believes LLMs present a major opportunity for America's workforce and economic growth. "Progress in artificial intelligence — the 80-year-old name for the newest technology — has been faster even than its evangelists predicted a couple of years ago," he said at Jackson Hole, adding that he is closely watching the evolution of cloud computing, tokens, and the pricing model of AI. Some economists and investors agree with him, calling his take on a modern Fed refreshing. Others say Warsh waffled through the same vague ideas about AI and forward guidance as in previous public appearances, leaving markets in the dark. Brusuelas, the RSM economist, said Warsh said nothing of substance on Friday that "one could not already infer." There are hard questions about "central bank independence that need to be asked and answered," he said. "Warsh clearly is not ready to do that at this time." The new chair says he is pulling the central bank into the future. Because, for him, inflation is a choice. "That's our job, our mandate, and our charge to keep," he said.